The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Project Gutenberg Encyclopedia, Volume 1 of 28
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The Project Gutenberg Encyclopedia, Volume 1 of 28

Author: Project Gutenberg

Release date: January 1, 1995 [eBook #200]
                Most recently updated: September 7, 2018

Language: English



*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PROJECT GUTENBERG ENCYCLOPEDIA, VOLUME 1 OF 28 ***












The Project Gutenberg Encyclopedia   Volume 1, of 28 plus Index

January, 1995 [Etexts #181 through #200 reserved for Volume 1]
**Currently referenced only as Project Gutenberg Etext #200**


Volume 1   Also having been known as the Encyclopedia Anglicana
and part 1 of the Interpedia Project.  ***Disclaimers follow***

Please take a look at the important information in this header.
We encourage you to keep this file on your own disk, keeping an
electronic path open for the next readers.  Do not remove this.

*********IMPORTANT NOTICE!  PLEASE READ THIS IN DETAIL********

The Project Gutenberg Encyclopedia is a reproduction of a 1911
edition of a famous encyclopedia.  The text has not been updated.
Although the text is in the public domain in the United States,
the original publisher still has a valid trademark in the
original title of the encyclopedia.  The original publisher
offered Project Gutenberg a license to use the trademark, but
the terms of the license were not consistent with the volunteer
noncommercial nature of Project Gutenberg or its primary goal of
distributing electronic text with the fewest possible restrictions.
In order to avoid the possibility of trademark infringement,
all references to the original title and the original publisher
have been changed or deleted.  Because of numerous references
embodying possible trademarks, the entire preface has been omitted.
The original publisher of the 1911 print encyclopedia was not and
is not involved in any way with the creation, editing or distribution
of the Project Gutenberg Encyclopedia.  Any errors which may have occurred
in the conversion to electronic form can not be attributed in any way to
the original publisher.  In order to avoid possible future trademark
infringements or confusion in the minds of the public, this electronic
version should be referred to as the Project Gutenberg Encyclopedia.
The name of the original print encyclopedia should not be used
in any way in connection with this electronic text.


The Project Gutenberg Encyclopedia   Volume 1, of 28 plus Index

!!!Remember. . .the information contained herein is OLD. . .!!!
*!!!It reflects the mindset of the turn of the last century!!!*





The Project Gutenberg Encyclopedia

A. This letter of ours corresponds to the first symbol in
the Phoenician alphabet and in almost all its descendants.  In
Phoenician, a, like the symbols for e and for o, did not
represent a vowel, but a breathing; the vowels originally were
not represented by any symbol.  When the alphabet was adopted by
the Greeks it was not very well fitted to represent the sounds
of their language.  The breathings which were not required in
Greek were accordingly employed to represent some of the vowel
sounds, other vowels, like i and u, being represented by
an adaptation of the symbols for the semi-vowels y and w.
The Phoenician name, which must have corresponded closely to
the Hebrew Aleph, was taken over by the Greeks in the form
Alpha (alpsa). The earliest authority for this, as for the
names of the other Greek letters, is the grammatical drama
(grammatike Ieoria) of Callias, an earlier contemporary of
Euripides, from whose works four trimeters, containing the names
of all the Greek letters, are preserved in Athenaeus x. 453 d.

The form of the letter has varied considerably.  In the
earliest of the Phoenician, Aramaic and Greek inscriptions
(the oldest Phoenician dating about 1000 B.C., the oldest
Aramaic from the 8th, and the oldest Greek from the 8th
or 7th century B.C.) A rests upon its side thus--@.  In
the Greek alphabet of later times it generally resembles
the modern capital letter, but many local varieties can be
distinguished by the shortening of one leg, or by the angle
at which the cross line is set-- @, &c. From the Greeks of
the west the alphabet was borrowed by the Romans and from them
has passed to the other nations of western Europe.  In the
earliest Latin inscriptions, such as the inscription found
in the excavation of the Roman Forum in 1899, or that on a
golden fibula found at Praeneste in 1886 (see ALPHABET).
Fine letters are still identical in form with those of the
western Greeks.  Latin develops early various forms, which
are comparatively rare in Greek, as @, or unknown, as
@.  Except possibly Faliscan, the other dialects of Italy
did not borrow their alphabet directly from the western Greeks
as the Romans did, but received it at second hand through the
Etruscans.  In Oscan, where the writing of early inscriptions
is no less careful than in Latin, the A takes the form
@, to which the nearest parallels are found in north Greece
(Boeotia, Locris and Thessaly, and there only sporadically) .

In Greek the symbol was used for both the long and the short
sound, as in English father (a) and German Ratte
a; English, except in dialects, has no sound corresponding
precisely to the Greek short a, which, so far as can be
ascertained, was a mid-back-wide sound, according to the
terminology of H. Sweet (Primer of Phonetics, p. 107).
Throughout the history of Greek the short sound remained practically
unchanged.  On the other hand, the long sound of a in the
Attic and Ionic dialects passed into an open e-sound, which
in the Ionic alphabet was represented by the same symbol as
the original e-sound (see ALPHABET: Greek). The vowel
sounds vary from language to language, and the a symbol has,
in consequence, to represent in many cases sounds which are
not identical with the Greek a whether long or short, and
also to represent several different vowel sounds in the same
language.  Thus the New English Dictionary distinguishes about
twelve separate vowel sounds, which are represented by a in
English.  In general it may be said that the chief changes
which affect the a-sound in different languages arise from
(1) rounding, (2) fronting, i.e. changing from a sound
produced far back in the mouth to a sound produced farther
forward.  The rounding is often produced by combination with
rounded consonants (as in English was, wall, &c.), the
rounding of the preceding consonant being continued into
the formation of the vowel sound.  Rounding has also been
produced by a following l-sound, as in the English fall,
small, bald, &c. (see Sweet's History of English Sounds,
2nd ed., sec. sec.  906, 784).  The effect of fronting is seen in
the Ionic and Attic dialects of Greek, where the original
name of the Medes, Madoi, with a in the first syllable
(which survives in Cyprian Greek as Madoi), is changed
into Medoi (Medoi), with an open e-sound instead
of the earlier a.  In the later history of Greek this
sound is steadily narrowed till it becomes identical with
i (as in English seed). The first part of the process
has been almost repeated by literary English, a (ah)
passing into e (eh), though in present-day pronunciation
the sound has developed further into a diphthongal ei
except before r, as in hare (Sweet, op. cit. sec.  783).

In English a represents unaccented forms of several
words, e.g. an (one), of, have, he, and or various
prefixes the history of which is given in detail in the New
English Dictionary (Oxford, 1888), vol. i. p. 4. (P. GI.)

As a symbol the letter is used in various connexions
and for various technical purposes, e.g. for a note in
music, for the first of the seven dominical letters (this
use is derived from its being the first of the litterae
nundinales at Rome), and generally as a sign of priority.

In Logic, the letter A is used as a symbol for the universal
affirmative proposition in the general form ``all x is y.''
The letters I, E and O are used respectively for the particular
affirmative ``some x is y,'' the universal negative ``no x
is y,'' and the particular negative ``some x is not y.''
The use of these letters is generally derived from the vowels
of the two Latin verbs AffIrmo (or AIo), ``I assert,'' and
nEgO, ``I deny.'' The use of the symbols dates from the 13th
century, though some authorities trace their origin to the Greek
logicians.  A is also used largely in abbreviations (q.v.).

In Shipping, A1 is a symbol used to dennote quality of
construction and material.  In the various shipping registers
ships are classed and given a rating after an official
examination, and assigned a classification mark, which
appears in addition to other particulars in those registers
after the name of the ship.  See SHIPBUILDING. It is
popularly used to indicate the highest degree of excellence.

AA, the name of a large number of small European rivers.
The word is derived from the Old German aha, cognate to
the Latin aqua, water (cf. Ger.-ach; Scand. a, aa,
pronounced o).  The following are the more important
streams of this name:--Two rivers in the west of Russia, both
falling into the Gulf of Riga, near Riga, which is situated
between them; a river in the north of France, falling into
the sea below Gravelines, and navigable as far as St Omer;
and a river of Switzerland, in the cantons of Lucerne and
Aargau, which carries the waters of Lakes Baldegger and
Hallwiler into the Aar. In Germany there are the Westphalian
Aa, rising in the Teutoburger Wald, and joining the Werre at
Herford, the Munster Aa, a tributary of the Ems, and others.

AAGESEN, ANDREW (1826-1879), Danish jurist, was educated
for the law at Kristianshavn and Copenhagen, and interrupted
his studies in 1848 to take part in the first Schleswig war,
in which he served as the leader of a reserve battalion.  In
1855 he became professor of jurisprudence at the university of
Copenhagen.  In 1870 he was appointed a member of the commission
for drawing up a maritime and commercial code, and the navigation
law of 1882 is mainly his work.  In 1879 he was elected a member
of the Landsthing; but it is as a teacher at the university
that he won his reputation.  Among his numerous juridical
works may be mentioned: Bidrag til Laeren om Overdragelse
af Ejendomsret, Bemaerkinger om Rettigheder over Ting
(Copenhagen, 1866, 1871-1872); Fortegnelse over Retssamlinger,
Retslitteratur i Danmark, Norge, Sverige (Copenhagen,
1876).  Aagesen was Hall's successor as lecturer on Roman law
at the university, and in this department his researches were
epoch-making.  All his pupils were profoundly impressed by
his exhaustive examination of the sources, his energetic
demonstration of his subject and his stringent search after
truth.  His noble, imposing, and yet most amiable personality
won for him, moreover, universal affection and respect.

See C. F. Bricka, Dansk.  Brog.  Lex. vol. i. (Copenhagen, 1887); Szmlade
Skrifter, edited by F. C. Bornemann (Copenhagen, 1863). (R. N. B.)

AAL, also known as A'L, ACH, or AICH, the Hindustani
names for the Morinda tinctoria and Morinda citrifalia,
plants extensively cultivated in India on account of the
reddish dye-stuff which their roots contain.  The name
is also applied to the dye, but the common trade name
is Suranji. Its properties are due to the presence
of a glucoside known as Morindin, which is compounded
from glucose and probably a trioxy-methyl-anthraquinone.

AALBORG, a city and seaport of Denmark, the seat of a bishop,
and chief town of the amt (county) of its name, on the south
bank of the Limfjord, which connects the North Sea and the
Cattegat.  Pop. (1901) 31,457.  The situation is typical of
the north of Jutland.  To the west the Linifjord broadens
into an irregular lake, with low, marshy shores and many
islands.  North-west is the Store Vildmose, a swamp where the
mirage is seen in summer.  South-east lies the similar Lille
Vildmose.  A railway connects Aalborg with Hjorring,
Frederikshavn and Skagen to the north, and with Aarhus and
the lines from Germany to the south.  The harbour is good
and safe, though difficult of access.  Aalborg is a growing
industrial and commercial centre, exporting grain and
fish.  An old castle and some picturesque houses of the
17th century remain.  The Budolphi church dates mostly from
the middle of the 18th century, while the Frue church was
partially burnt in 1894, but the foundation of both is of
the 14th century or earlier.  There are also an ancient
hospital and a museum of art and antiquities.  On the north
side of the fjord is Norre Sundby, connected with Aalborg
by a pontoon and also by an iron railway bridge, one of the
finest engineering works in the kingdom.  Aabborgt received
town privileges in 1342 and the bishopric dates from 1554.

AALEN, a town of Germany, in the kingdom of Wurttemberg,
pleasantly situated on the Kocher, at the foot of the Swabian
Alps, about 50 m.  E. of Stuttgart, and with direct railway
communication with Ulm and Cannstatt.  Pop. 10,000.  Woollen
and linen goods are manufactured, and there are ribbon
looms and tanneries in the town, and large iron works in the
neighbourhood.  There are several schools and churches, and a
statue of the poet Christian Schubart.  Aalen was a free imperial
city from 1360 to 1802, when it was annexed to Wurttemberg.

AALESUND, a seaport of Norway, in Romsdal amt (county), 145
m.  N. by E. from Bergen.  Pop. (1900) 11,672.  It occupies
two of the outer islands of the west coast, Aspo and
Norvo, which enclose the picturesque harbour.  Founded
in 1824, it is the principal shipping-place of Sondmore
district, and one of the chief stations of the herring
fishery.  Aalesund is adjacent to the Jorund and Geiranger
fjords, frequented by tourists.  From Oje at the head of
Jorund a driving-route strikes south to the Nordfjord, and
from Merck on Geiranger another strikes inland to Otta, on
the railway to Liilehammer and Christiania.  Aalesund is a
port of call for steamers between Bergen, Hull, Newcastle
and Hamburg, and Trondhjem.  A little to the south of the
town are the ruins of the reputed castle of Rollo, the
founder, in the 9th century, of the dynasty of the dukes of
Normandy.  On the 23rd of January 1904, Aalesund was the
scene of one of the most terrible of the many conflagrations
to which Norwegian towns, built largely of wood, have been
subject.  Practically the whole town was destroyed, a gale aiding
the flames, and the population had to leave the place in the
night at the notice of a few minutes.  Hardly any lives were
lost, but the sufferings of the people were so terrible that
assistance was sent from all parts of the kingdom, and by the
German government, while the British government also offered it.

AALI, MEHEMET, Pasha (1815-1871), Turkish statesman, was born
at Constantinople in 1815, the son of a government official.
Entering the diplomatic service of his country soon after reaching
manhood, he became successively secretary of the Embassy in
Vienna, minister in London, and foreign minister under Reshid
Pasha.  In 1852 he was promoted to the post of grand vizier,
but after a short time retired into private life.  During the
Crimean War he was recalled in order to take the portfolio
of foreign affairs for a second time under Reshid Pasha,
and in this capacity took part in 1855 in the conference of
Vienna.  Again becoming in that year grand vizier, an office
he filled no less than five times, he represented Turkey
at the congress of Paris in 1856.  In 1867 he was appointed
regent of Turkey during the sultan's visit to the Paris
Exhibition.  Aali Pasha was one of the most zealous advocates
of the introduction of Western reforms under the sultans Abdul
Mejid and Abdul Aziz.  A scholar and a linguist, he was a
match for the diplomats of the Christian powers, against whom
he successfully defended the interests of his country.  He
died at Erenkeni in Asia Minor on the 6th of September 1871.

AAR, or AARE, the most considerable river which both
rises and ends entirely within Switzerland.  Its total
length (including all bends) from its source to its junction
with the Rhine is about 181 m., during which distance it
descends 5135 ft., while its drainage area is 6804 sq.
m.  It rises in the great Aar glaciers, in the canton of
Bern, and W. of the Grimsel Pass.  It runs E. to the Grimsel
Hospice, and then N.W. through the Hasli valley, forming on the
way the magnificent waterfall of the Handegg (151 ft.), past
Guttannen, and pierces the limestone barrier of the Kirchet
by a grand gorge, before reaching Meiringen, situated in a
plain.  A little beyond, near Brienz, the river expands
into the lake of Brienz, where it becomes navigable.  Near
the west end of that lake it receives its first important
affluent, the Lutschine (left), and then runs across the
swampy plain of the Bodoli, between Interlaken (left) and
Unterseen (right), before again expanding in order to form
the Lake of Thun.  Near the west end of that lake it receives
on the left the Kander, which has just before been joined
by the Simme; on flowing out of the lake it passes Thun, and
then circles the lofty bluff on which the town of Bern is
built.  It soon changes its north-westerly for a due westerly
direction, but after receiving the Saane or Sarine (left)
turns N. till near Aarberg its stream is diverted W. by the
Hagneck Canal into the Lake of Bienne, from the upper end of
which it issues through the Nidau Canal and then runs E. to
Buren.  Henceforth its course is N.E. for a long distance,
past Soleure (below which the Grosse Emme flows in on the
right), Aarburg (where it is joined by the Wigger, right),
Olten, Aarau, near which is the junction with the Suhr on the
right, and Wildegg, where the Hallwiler Aa falls in on the
right.  A short way beyond, below Brugg, it receives first the
Reuss (right), and very shortly afterwards the Limmat or Linth
(right).  It now turns due N., and soon becomes itself an
affluent of the Rhine (left), which it surpasses in volume
when they unite at Coblenz, opposite Waldshut. (W. A. B. C.)

AARAU, the capital of the Swiss canton of Aargau.  In 1900
it had 7831 inhabitants, mostly German-speaking, and mainly
Protestants.  It is situated in the valley of the Aar, on the
right bank of that river, and at the southern foot of the range
of the Jura.  It is about 50 m. by rail N.E. of Bern, and 31
m.  N.W. of Zurich.  It is a well-built modern town, with
no remarkable features about it.  In the Industrial Museum
there is (besides collections of various kinds) some good
painted glass of the 16th century, taken from the neighbouring
Benedictine monastery of Muri (founded 1027, suppressed
1841---the monks are now quartered at Gries, near Botzen, in
Tirol).  The cantonal library contains many works relating to
Swiss history and many MSS. coming from the suppressed Argovian
monasteries.  There are many industries in the town, especially
silk-ribbon weaving, foundries, and factories for the manufacture
of cutlery and scientific instruments.  The popular novelist
and historian, Heinrich Zschokke (1771-1848), spent most of
his life here, and a bronze statue has been erected to his
memory.  Aarau is an important military centre.  The slopes
of the Jura are covered with vineyards.  Aarau, an ancient
fortress, was taken by the Bernese in 1415, and in 1798 became
for a time the capital of the Helvetic republic.  Eight miles
by rail N.E. are the famous sulphur baths of Schinznach,
just above which is the ruined castle of Habsburg, the
original home of that great historical house. (W. A. B. C.)

AARD-VARK (meaning ``earth pig''), the Dutch name for
the mammals of genus Orycteropus, confined to Africa (see
EDEN-TATAI. Several species have been named.  Among them
is the typical form, O. capensis, or Cape ant-bear from
South Africa, and the northern aard-vark (O. aethiopicus)
of north-eastern Africa, extending into Egypt.  In form
these animals are somewhat pig-like; the body is stout,
with arched back; the limbs are short and stout, armed with
strong, blunt claws; the ears disproportionately long; and
the tail very thick at the base and tapering gradually.  The
greatly elongated head is set on a short thick neck, and at
the extremity of the snout is a disk in which the nostrils
open.  The mouth is small and tubular, furnished with a long
extensile tongue.  The measurements of a female taken in the
flesh, were head and body 4 ft., tail 17 1/2 in.; but a large
individual measured 6 ft. 8 in. over all.  In colour the
Cape aard-vark is pale sandy or yellow, the hair being scanty
and allowing the skin to show; the northern aard-vark has
a still thinner coat, and is further distinguished by the
shorter tail and longer head and ears.  These animals are of
nocturnal and burrowing habits, and generally to be found near
ant-hills.  The strong claws make a hole in the side of the
ant-hill, and the insects are collected on the extensile
tongue.  Aard-varks are hunted for their skins; but the
flesh is valued for food, and often salted and smoked.

AARD-WOLF (earth-wolf), a South and East African carnivorous
mammal (Proteles cristatus), in general appearance like a
small striped hyena, but with a more pointed muzzle, sharpe
ears, and a long erectile mane down the middle line of the
neck and back.  It is of nocturnal and burrowing habits, and
feeds on decomposed animal substances, larvae and termites.

AARGAU (Fr. Argovie), one of the more northerly Swiss
cantons, comprising the lower course of the river Aar (q.v.),
whence its name.  Its total area is 541.9 sq. m., of which
517.9 sq. m. are classed as ``productive'' (forests covering
172 sq. m. and vineyards 8.2 sq. m.).  It is one of the least
mountainous Swiss cantons, forming part of a great table-land,
to the north of the Alps and the east of the Jura, above which
rise low hills.  The surface of the country is beautifully
diversified, undulating tracts and well-wooded hills alternating
with fertile valleys watered mainly by the Aar and its
tributaries.  It contains the famous hot sulphur springs of
Baden (q.v.) and Schinznach, while at Rheinfelden there are
very extensive saline springs.  Just below Brugg the Reuss
and the Limmat join the Aar, while around Brugg are the ruined
castle of Habsburg, the old convent of Konigsfelden (with
fine painted medieval glass) and the remains of the Roman
settlement of Vindonissa [Windisch].  The total population
in 1900 was 206,498, almost exclusively German-speaking, but
numbering 114,176 Protestants to 91,039 Romanists and 990
Jews.  The capital of the canton is Aarau (q.v.), while
other important towns are Baden (q.v.), Zofingen (4591
inhabitants), Reinach (3668 inhabitants), Rheinfelden (3349
inhabitants), Wohlen (3274 inhabitants), and Lenzburg (2588
inhabitants).  Aargau is an industrious and prosperous canton,
straw-plaiting, tobacco-growing, silk-ribbon weaving, and
salmon-fishing in the Rhine being among the chief industries.
As this region was, up to 1415, the centre of the Habsburg
power, we find here many historical old castles (e.g.
Habsburg, Lenzburg, Wildegg), and former monasteries (e.g.
Wettingen, Muri), founded by that family, but suppressed in
1841, this act of violence being one of the main causes
of the civil war called the ``Sonderbund War,'' in 1847 in
Switzerland.  The cantonal constitution dates mainly from
1885, but since 1904 the election of the executive council
of five members is made by a direct vote of the people.  The
legislature consists of members elected in the proportion of
one to every 1100 inhabitants.  The ``obligatory referendum''
exists in the case of all laws, while 5000 citizens have the
right of ``initiative'' in proposing bills or alterations
in the cantonal constitution.  The canton sends 10 members
to the federal Nationalrat, being one for every 20,000,
while the two Standerate are (since 1904) elected by
a direct vote of the people.  The canton is divided into
eleven administrative districts, and contains 241 communes.


1415 the Aargau region was taken from the Habsburgs by the Swiss
Confederates.  Bern kept the south-west portion (Zofingen,
Aarburg, Aarau, Lenzburg, and Brugg), but some districts,
named the Freie Amter or ``free bailiwicks'' (Mellingen,
Muri, Villmergen, and Bremgarten), with the county of Baden,
were ruled as ``subject lands'' by all or certain of the
Confederates.  In 1798 the Bernese bit became the canton of
Aargau of the Helvetic Republic, the remainder forming the
canton of Baden.  In 1803, the two halves (plus the Frick
glen, ceded in 1802 by Austria to the Helvetic Republic)
were united under the name of Kanton Aargau, which was then
admitted a full member of the reconstituted Confederation.

See also Argovia (published by the Cantonal Historical
Society), Aarau, from 1860; F. X. Bronner, Der Kanton Aargau,
2 vols., St Gall and Bern, 1844; H. Lehmann, Die argauische
Strohindustrie, Aarau, 1896; W. Merz, Die mittelalt.
Burganlagen und Wehrbauten d.  Kant.  Argau (fine illustrated
work on castles), Aarau, 2 vols., 1904--1906; W. Merz and
F. E. Welti, Die Rechtsquellen d.  Kant. Argau, 3 vols.,
Aarau, 1898--1905; J. Muller, Der Aargau, 2 vols., Zurich,
1870; E. L. Rochholz, Aargauer Weisthumer, Atarau, 1877; E.
Zschokke, Geschichte des Aargaus, Aarau, 1903. (W. A. B. C.)

AARHUS, a seaport and bishop's see of Denmark, on the
east coast of Jutland, of which it is the principal port;
the second largest town in the kingdom, and capital of
the amt (county) of Aarhus.  Pop. (1901) 51,814.  The
district is low-lying, fertile and well wooded.  The town
is the junction of railways from all parts of the country.
The harbour is good and safe, and agricultural produce is
exported, while coal and iron are among the chief imports.
The cathedral of the 13th century (extensively restored) is
the largest church in Denmark.  There is a museum of art and
antiquities.  To the south-west (13 m. by rail), a picturesque
region extends west from the railway junction of Skanderborg,
including several lakes, through which flows the Gudenaa,
the largest river in Jutland, and rising ground exceeding
500 ft. in the Himmelbjerg.  The railway traverses this
pleasant district of moorland and wood to Silkeborg, a modern
town having one of the most attractive situations in the
kingdom.  The bishopric of Aarhus dates at least from 951.

AARON, the traditional founder and head of the Jewish
priesthood, who, in company with Moses, led the Israelites
out of Egypt (see EXODUS; MOSES) . The greater part of
his life-history is preserved in late Biblical narratives,
which carry back existing conditions and beliefs to the
time of the Exodus, and find a precedent for contemporary
hierarchical institutions in the events of that period.
Although Aaron was said to have been sent by Yahweh (Jehovah)
to meet Moses at the ``mount of God'' (Horeb, Ex.iv.27),he
plays only a secondary part in the incidents at Pharaoh's
court.  After the ``exodus'' from Egypt a striking account
is given of the vision of the God of Israel vouchsafed to
him and to his sons Nadab and Abihu on the same holy mount
(Ex. xxiv. 1 seq. 9-11), and together with Hur he was at the
side of Moses when the latter, by means of his wonder-working
rod, enabled Joshua to defeat the Amalekites (xvii. 8-16).
Hur and Aaron were left in charge of the Israelites when
Moses and Joshua ascended the mount to receive the Tables of
the Law (xxiv. 12-15), and when the people, in dismay at the
prolonged absence of their leader, demanded a god, it was at
the instigation of Aaron that the golden calf was made (see
CALF, GOLDEN). This was regarded as an act of apostasy
which, according to one tradition, led to the consecration
of the Levites, and almost cost Aaron his life (cp. Deut.
ix. 20). The incident paves the way for the account of the
preparation of the new tables of stone which contain a series
of laws quite distinct from the Decalogue (q.v.) (Ex. xxxiii.
seq.).  Kadesh, and not Sinai or Horeb, appears to have been
originally the scene of these incidents (Deut. xxxiii. 8
seq. compared with Ex. xxxii. 26 sqq.), and it was for some
obscure offence at this place that both Aaron and Moses were
prohibited from entering the Promised Land (Num. xx.).  In
what way they had not ``sanctified'' (an allusion in the
Hebrew to Kadesh ``holy'') Yahweh is quite uncertain, and
it would appear that it was for a similar offence that the
sons of Aaron mentioned above also met their death (Lev. x. 3;
cp.  Num. xx. 12, Deut. xxxii. 51). Aaron is said to have
died at Moserah (Deut. x. 6), or at Mt. Hor; the latter is
an unidentified site on the border of Edom (Num. xx. 23,
xxxiii. 37; for Moserah see ib. 30-31), and consequently
not in the neighbourhood of Petra, which has been the
traditional scene from the time of Josephus (Ant. iv. 4. 7).

Several difficulties in the present Biblical text appear to
have arisen from the attempt of later tradition to find a
place for Aaron in certain incidents.  In the account of the
contention between Moses and his sister Miriam (Num. xii.),
Aaron occupies only a secondary position, and it is very doubtful
whether he was originally mentioned in the older surviving
narratives.  It is at least remarkable that he is only thrice
mentioned in Deuteronomy (ix. 20, x. 6, xxxii. 50). The
post-exilic narratives give him a greater share in the plagues of
Egypt, represent him as high-priest, and confirm his position
by the miraculous budding of his rod alone of all the rods of
the other tribes (Num. xvii.; for parallels see Gray comm.
ad loc., p. 217).  The latter story illustrates the growth
of the older exodus-tradition along with the development of
priestly ritual: the old account of Korah's revolt against the
authority of Moses has been expanded, and now describes (a)
the divine prerogatives of the Levites in general, and (b)
the confirmation of the superior privileges of the Aaronites
against the rest of the Levites, a development which can
scarcely be earlier than the time of Ezekiel (xliv. 15 seq.).

Aaron's son Eleazar was buried in an Ephraimite locality
known after the grandson as the ``hill of Phinehas'' (Josh.
xxiv. 33). Little historical information has been preserved of
either.  The name Phinehas (apparently of Egyptian origin)
is better known as that of a son of Eli, a member of the
priesthood of Shiloh, and Eleazar is only another form of
Eliezer the son of Moses, to whose kin Eli is said to have
belonged.  The close relation between Aaronite and Levitical
names and those of clans related to Moses is very noteworthy,
and it is a curious coincidence that the name of Aaron's
sister Miriam appears in a genealogy of Caleb (1 Chron. iv.
17) with Jether (cp. JETHRO) and Heber (cp. KENITES). In
view of the confusion of the traditions and the difficulty of
interpreting the details sketched above, the recovery of the
historical Aaron is a work of peculiar intricacy.  He may
well have been the traditional head of the priesthood, and
R. H. Kennett has argued in favour of the view that he was
the founder of the cult at Bethel (Journ. of Theol.  Stud.,
1905, pp. 161 sqq.), corresponding to the Mosaite founder
of Dan (q.v.). This throws no light upon the name, which
still remains quite obscure: and unless Aaron (Aharon) is
based upon Aron, ``ark'' (Redslob, R. P. A. Dozy, J. P.
N. Land), names associated with Moses and Aaron, which are,
apparently, of South Palestinian (or North-Arabian) origin.

For the literature and a general account of the Jewish
priesthood, see the articles LEVTTES and PRIEST. . (S. A. C.)

AARON'S ROD, the popular name given to various tall flowering
plants (``hag taper,', ``golden rod,'' &c.).  In architecture
the term is given to an ornamental rod with sprouting leaves,
or sometimes with a serpent entwined round it (from the
Biblical references in Exodus vii. 10 and Numbers xvii. 8).

AARSSENS, or AARSSEN, FRANCIS VAN (1572-1641), a
celebrated diplomatist and statesman of the United Provinces.
His talents commended him to the notice of Advocate Johan
van Oldenbarneveldt, who sent him, at the age of 26 years,
as a diplomatic agent of the states-general to the court of
France.  He took a considerable part in the negotiations of
the twelve years' truce in 1606.  His conduct of affairs having
displeased the French king, he was recalled from his post by
Oldenbarneveldt in 1616.  Such was the hatred he henceforth
conceived against his former benefactor, that he did his
very utmost to effect his ruin.  He was one of the packed
court of judges who in 1619 condemned the aged statesman to
death.  For his share in this judicial murder a deep stain
rests on the memory of Aarssens.  He afterwards became the
confidential counsellor of Maurice, prince of Orange, and
afterwards of Frederick Henry, prince of Orange, in their
conduct of the foreign affairs of the republic.  He was sent
on special embassies to Venice, Germany and England, and
displayed so much diplomatic skill and finesse that Richelieu
ranked him among the three greatest politicians of his time.

AASEN, IVAR (1813-1896), Norwegian philologist and
lexicographer, was born at Aasen i Orsten, in Sondmore,
Norway, on the. 5th of August 1813.  His father, a small
peasant-farmer named Ivar Jonsson, died in 1826.  He was
brought up to farmwork, but he assiduously cultivated all
his leisure in reading, and when he was eighteen he opened an
elementary school in his native parish.  In 1833 he entered
the household of H. C. Thoresen the husband of the eminent
writer Magdalene Thoresen, in Hero, and here he picked up
the elements of Latin.  Gradually, and by dint of infinite
patience and concentration, the young peasant became master
of many languages, and began the scientific study of their
structure.  About 1841 he had freed himself from all the
burden of manual labour, and could occupy his thoughts with
the dialect of his native district, the Sondmore; his
first publication was a small collection of folk-songs in
the Sondmore language (1843) . His remarkable abilities now
attracted general attention, and he was helped to continue his
studies undisturbed.  His Grammar ofthe Norwegian Dialects
(1848) was the result of much labour, and of journeys taken
to every part of the country.  Aasen's famous Dictionary
of the Norwegian Dialects appeared in its original form in
1850, and from this publication dates all the wide cultivation
of the popular language in Norwegian, since Aasen really did
no less than construct, out of the different materials at his
disposal, a popular language or definite folke-maal for
Norway.  With certain modifications, the most important of which
were introduced later by Aasen himself, this artificial language
is that which has been adopted ever since by those who write in
dialect, and which later enthusiasts have once more endeavoured
to foist upon Norway as her official language in the place of
Dano-Norwegian.  Aasen composed poems and plays in the composite
dialect to show how it should be used; one of these dramas,
The Heir (1855), was frequently acted, and may be considered
as the pioneer of all the abundant dialect-literature of the
last half-century, from Vinje down to Garborg.  Aasen continued
to enlarge and improve his grammars and his dictionary.  He
lived very quietly in lodgings in Christiania, surrounded by
his books and shrinking from publicity, but his name grew into
wide political favour as his ideas about the language of the
peasants became more and more the watch-word of the popular
party.  Quite early in his career, 1842, he had begun to
receive a stipend to enable him to give his entire attention
to his philological investigations; and the Storthing--.
conscious of the national importance of his woth---treated hm
in this respect with more and more generosity as he advanced in
years.  He continued his investigations to the last, but it
may be said that, after the 1873 edition of his Dictionary,
he added but little to his stores.  Ivar Aasen holds perhaps
an isolated place in literary history as the one man who has
invented, or at least selected and constructed, a language
which has pleased so many thousands of his countrymen that
they have accepted it for their schools, their sermons
and their songs.  He died in Christiania on the 23rd of
September 1896, and was buried with Public honours. (E. G.)

AB, the fifth month of the ecclesiastical and the
eleventh of the civil year of the Jews.  It approximately
Corresponds to the period of the 15th of July to the 15th of
August.  The word is of Babylonian origin, adopted by the
Jews with other calendar names after the Babylonian exile.
Tradition ascribes the death of Aaron to the first day of Ab.
On the ninth is kept the Fast of Ab, or the Black Fast, to
bewail the destruction of the first temple by Nebuchadrezzar
(586 B.C.) and of the second by Titus (A.D. 70).

ABA. (1) A form of altazimuth instrument, invented by, and Cabled
after, Antoine d'Abbadie; (2) a rough homespun manufactured in
Bulgariai (3) a long coarse shirt worn by the Bedouin Arabs.

ABABDA (the Gebadei of Pliny, probably the Troglodytes of
classical writers), a nomad tribe of African ``Arabs,, of Hamitic
origin.  They extend from the Nile at Assuan to the Red Sea,
and reach northward to the Kena-Kosseir road, thus occupying
the southern border of Egypt east of the Nile.  They call
themselves ``sons of the Jinns.'' With some of the clans of
the Bisharin (q.v.) and possibly the Hadendoa (q.v.) they
represent the Blemmyes of classic geographers, and their location
to-day is almost identical with that assigned them in Roman
times.  They were constantly at war with the Romans, who at
last subsidized them.  In the middle ages they were known as
Beja (q.v.), and convoyed pilgrims from the Nile valley to
Aidhab, the port of embarkation for Jedda.  From time immemorial
they have acted as guides to caravans through the Nubian
desert and up the Nile valley as far as Sennar.  To-day many of
them are employed in the telegraph service across the Arabian
desert.  They intermarried with the Nuba, and settled in small
Colonies at Shendi and elsewhere long before the Egyptian
invasion (A.D. 1820-1822).  They are still great trade
carriers, and visit very distant districts.  The Ababda of
Egypt, numbering some 30,000, are governed by an hereditary
``chief.'' Although nominally a vassal of the Khedive he pays no
tribute.  Indeed he is paid a subsidy, a portion of the
road-dues, in return for his safeguarding travellers from Bedouin
robbers.  The sub-sheikhs are directly responsible to him.
The Ababda of Nubia, reported by Joseph von Russegger, who
visited the country in 1836, to number some 40,000, have since
diminished, having probably amalgamated with the Bisharin,
their hereditary enemies when they were themselves a powerful
nation.  The Ababda generally speak Arabic (mingled with
Barabra [Nubian] words), the result of their long-continued
contact with Egypt; but the southern and south-eastern portion
of the tribe in many cases still retain their Beja dialect,
ToBedawiet.  Those of Kosseir will not speak this before
strangers, as they believe that to reveal the mysterious
dialect would bring ruin on them.  Those nearest the Nile
have much fellah blood in them.  As a tribe they claim an Arab
origin, apparently through their sheikhs.  They have adopted
the dress and habits of the fellahin, unlike their kinsmen
the Bisharin and Hadendoa, who go practically naked.  They
are neither so fierce nor of so fine a physique as these
latter.  They are lithe and well built, but small: the average
height is little more than 5 ft., except in the sheikh clan,
who are obviously of Arab origin.  Their complexion is more
red than black, their features angular, noses straight and hair
luxuriant.  They bear the character of being treacherous and
faithless, being bound by no oath, but they appear to be honest
in money matters and hospitable, and, however poor, never
beg.  Formerly very poor, the Ababda became wealthy after
the British occupation of Egypt.  The chief settlements are in
Nubia, where they live in villages and employ themselves in
agriculture.  Others of them fish in the Red Sea and then
hawk the salt fish in the interior.  Others are pedlars,
while charcoal burning, wood-gathering and trading in gums
and drugs, especially in senna leaves, occupy many.  Unlike
the true Arab, the Ababda do not live in tents, but build
huts with hurdles and mats, or live in natural caves, as
did their ancestors in classic times.  They have few horses,
using the camel as beast of burden or their ``mount'' in
war.  They live chiefly on milk and durra, the latter
eaten either raw or roasted.  They are very superstitious,
believing, for example, that evil would overtake a family
if a girl member should, after her marriage, ever set eyes
on her mother: hence the Ababda husband has to make his
home far from his wife's village.  In the Mahdist troubles
(1882-1898) many ``friendlies'' were recruited from the tribe.

For their earlier history see BEJA; see also BISHARIN,
HADENDOA, KABBABish; and the following authorities:---Sir
F. R. Wingate, Mahdism and the Egyptian Sudan (Lond.
1891); Giuseppe Sergi, Africa: Antropologia della Stirpe
Camitica (Turin, 1897); A. H. Keane, Ethnology of Egyptian
Sudan (Lond. 1884); Anglo-Egyptian Sudan, edited by
Count Gleichen (Lond. 1905); Joseph von Russegger, Die
Reisen in Afrika (Stuttgart, 1841-1850). (T. A. J.)

ABACA, or ABAKA, a native name for the plant Musa textilis,
which produces the fibre called Manila Hemp (q.v.). .

ABACUS (Gr. abax, a slab Fr. abaque, tailloir), in
architecture, the upper member of the capital of a column.
Its chief function is to provide a larger supporting surface
for the architrave or arch it has to carry.  In the Greek Doric
order the abacus is a plain square slab.  In the Roman and
Renaissance Doric orders it is crowned by a moulding.  In the
Archaic-Greek Ionic order, owing to the greater width of the
capital, the abacus is rectangular in plan, and consists of a
carved ovolo moulding.  In later examples the abacus is square,
except where there are angle volutes, when it is slightly
curved over the same.  In the Roman and Renaissance Ionic
capital, the abacus is square with a fillet On the top of an
ogee moulding, but curved over angle volutes.  In the Greek
Corinthian order the abacus is moulded, its sides are concave
and its angles canted (except in one or two exceptional Greek
capitals, where it is brought to a sharp angle); and the same
shape is adopted in the Roman and Renaissance Corinthian and
Composite capitals, in some cases with the ovolo moulding
carved.  In Romanesque architecture the abacus is square with
the lower edge splayed off and moulded or carved, and the
same was retained in France during the medieval period; but
in England,in Early English work, a circular deeply moulded
abacus was introduced, which in the 14th and 15th centuries
was transformed into an octagonal one.  The diminutive of
Abacus, ABACISCUS, is applied in architecture to the chequers
or squares of a tessellated pavement . ``Abacus'' is also the
name of an instrument employed by the ancients for arithmetical
calculations; pebbles, hits of bone or coins being used as
counters.  Fig. 1 shows a Roman abacus taken from an ancient
monument.  It contains seven long and seven shorter rods
or bars, the former having four perforated beads running
on them and the latter one.  The bar marked 1 indicates
units, X tens, and so on up to millions.  The beads on the
shorter bars denote fives,--five units, five tens, &c. The
rod O and corresponding short rod are for marking ounces;
and the short quarter rods for fractions of an ounce.

The Swan-Pan of the Chinese (fig. 2) closely resembles
the Roman abacus in its construction and use.  Computations
are made with it by means of balls of bone or ivory running
on slender bamboo rods, similar to the simpler board,
fitted up with beads strung on wires, which is employed in
teaching the rudiments of arithmetic in English schools.

FIG. 2.--Chinese Swan-Pan.  The name of ``abacus'' is also
given, in logic, to an instrument, often called the ``logical
machine,'' analogous to the mathematical abacus.  It is
constructed to show all the possible combinations of a set of
logical terms with their negatives, and, further, the way in which
these combinations are affected by the addition of attributes
or other limiting words, i.e. to simplify mechanically the
solution of logical problems.  These instruments are all more
or less elaborate developments of the ``logical slate,'' on
which were written in vertical columns all the combinations
of symbols or letters which could be made logically out of a
definite number of terms.  These were compared with any given
premises, and those which were incompatible were crossed
off.  In the abacus the combinations are inscribed each on a
single slip of wood or similar substance, which is moved by a
key; incompatible combinations can thus be mechanically removed
at will, in accordance with any given series of premises.
The principal examples of such machines are those of W. S.
Jevons (Element.  Lessons in Logic, C. xxiii.), John Venn
(see his Symbolic Logic, 2nd ed., 1894, p. 135), and Allan
Marquand (see American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 1885, pp.
303-7, and Johns Hopkins University Studies in Logic, 1883).

ABADDON, a Hebrew word meaning ``destruction.'' In poetry
it comes to mean ``place of destruction,'' and so the
underworld or Sheol (cf. Job xxvi. 6; Prov. xv. 11). In Rev.
ix. 11 Abaddon ((Abaddon) is used of hell personified,
the prince of the underworld.  The term is here explained
as Apollyon (q.v.), the ``destroyer.', W. Baudissin
(Herzog-Hauck, Realencyklo padie) notes that Hades and
Abaddon in Rabbinic writings are employed as personal names,
just as shemayya in Dan. iv. 23, shamayim (``heaven''),
and makom (``place'') among the Rabbins, are used of God.

ABADEH, a small walled town of Persia, in the province of
Fars, situated at an elevation of 6200 ft. in a fertile
plain on the high road between Isfahan and Shiraz, 140 m.
from the former and 170 m. from the latter place.  Pop.
4000.  It is the chief place of the Abadeh-Iklid district,
which has 30 villages; it has telegraph and post offices,
and is famed for its carved wood-work, small boxes, trays,
sherbet spoons, &c., made of the wood of pear and box trees.

ABAE (rabai), a town in the N.E. corner of Phocis, in
Greece, famous in early times for its oracle of Apollo,
one of those consulted by Croesus (Herod. i. 46). It was
rich in treasures (Herod. viii. 33), but was sacked by the
Persians, and the temple remained in a ruined state.  The
oracle was, however, still consulted, e.g. by the Thebans
before Leuctra (Paus. iv. 32. 5). The temple seems to have
been burnt again during the Sacred War, and was in a very
dilapidated state when seen by Pausanias (x. 35), though
some restoration, as well as the building of a new temple,
was undertaken by Hadrian.  The sanctity of the shrine
ensured certain privileges to the people of Abac (Bull.
Corresp.  Hell. vi. 171), and these were confirmed by the
Romans.  The polygonal wabs of the acropolis may still be
seen in a fair state of preservation on a circular hill
standing about 500 ft. above the little plain of Exarcho;
one gateway remains, and there are also traces of town walls
below.  The temple site was on a low spur of the hill, below the
town.  An early terrace wall supports a precinct in which are
a stoa and some remains of temples; these were excavated by the
British School at Athens in 1894, but very little was found.

See also W. M. Leake, Travels in Northern Greece, ii. p. 163i Journal
of Hellenic Studies, xvi. pp. 291-312 (V. W. Yorke). . (E. GR.)

ABAKANSK, a fortified town of Siberia, in the Russian
government of Yeniseisk, on the river Yenisei, 144 m.  S.S.W.
of Krasnoyarsk, in lat. 54 deg. 20' N., long. 91 deg. 40' E. This is
considered the mildest and most salubrious place in Siberia, and
is remarkable for certain tumuli (of the Li Kitai) and statues
of men from seven to nine feet high, covered with hieroglyphics.
Peter the Great had a fort built here in 1707.  Pop. 2000.

ABALONE, the Spanish name used in California for various
species of the shell-fish of the Haliotidae family, with a
richly coloured shell yielding mother-of-pearl.  This sort
of Haliotis is also commonly called ``ear-shell,'' and in
Guernsey ``ormer'' (Fr. ormier, for oreille de mer).
The abalone shell is found especially at Santa Barbara and
other places on the southern Californian coast, and when
polished makes a beautiful ornament.  The mollusc itself is
often eaten, and dried for consumption in China and Japan.

ABANA (or AMANAH, classical Chrysorrhoas) and PHARPAR,
the ``rivers of Damascus'' (2 Kings v. 12), now generally
identified with the Barada (i.e. ``cold'') and the A`waj
(i.e. ``crooked'') respectively, though if the reference
to Damascus be limited to the city, as in the Arabic
version of the Old Testament, Pharpar would be the modern
Taura.  Both streams run from west to east across the plain of
Damascus, which owes to them much of its fertility, and lose
themselves in marshes, or lakes, as they are called, on the
borders of the great Arabian desert.  John M'Gregor, who gives
an interesting description of them in his Rob Roy on the
Jordan, affirmed that as a work of hydraulic engineering,
the system and construction of the canals, by which the Abana
and Pharpar were used for irrigation, might be considered as
one of the most complete and extensive in the world.  As the
Barada escapes from the mountains through a narrow gorge,
its waters spread out fan-like, in canals or ``rivers'', the
name of one of which, Nahr Banias, retains a trace of Abana.

ABANCOURT, CHARLES XAVIER JOSEPH DE FRANQUE VILLE D',
(1758-1792), French statesman, and nephew of Calonne.  He was
Louis XVI.'s last minister of war (July 1792), and organized
the defence of the Tuileries for the 10th of August.  Commanded
by the Legislative Assembly to send away the Swiss guards, he
refused, and was arrested for treason to the nation and sent
to Orleans to be tried.  At the end of August the Assembly
ordered Abancourt and the other prisoners at Orleans to
be transferred to Paris with an escort commanded by Claude
Fournier, ``the American.'' At Versailles they learned of the
massacres at Paris, and Abancourt and his fellow-prisoners
were murdered in cold blood on the 8th of September 1792.
Fournier was unjustly charged with complicity in the crime.

ABANDONMENT (Fr. abandonnement, from abandonner, to
abandon, relinquish; abandonner was originally equivalent
to mettrea bandon, to leave to the jurisdiction, i.e. of
another, bandon being from Low Latin bandum, bannum, order,
decree, ``ban''), in law, the relinquishment of an interest,
claim, privilege or possession.  Its signification varies
according to the branch of the law in which it is employed,
but the more important uses of the word are summarized below.

ABANDONMENT OF AN ACTION is the discontinuance of proceedings
commenced in the High Court of Justice either because the
plaintiff is convinced that he will not succeed in his action
or for other reasons.  Previous to the Judicature Act of 1875,
considerable latitude was allowed as to the time when a suitor
might abandon his action, and yet preserve his right to bring
another action on the same suit (see NONSUIT); but since 1875
this right has been considerably curtailed, and a plaintiff who
has deilvered his reply (see PLEADING), and afterwards wishes
to abandon his action, can generally obtain leave so to do only
on condition of bringing no further proceedings in the matter.

ABANDONMENT IN MARINE INSURANCE is the surrender of the ship
or goods insured to the insurers, in the case of a constructive
total loss of the thing insured.  For the requisites and
effects of abandonment in this sense See INSURANCE, MARINE.

ABANDONMENT OF WIFE AND CHILDREN is dealt with under
DESERTION, and the abandonment or exposure of a
young child under the age of two, which is an indictable
misdemeanour, is dealt with under CHILDREN, CRUELTY TO.

ABANDONMENT OF DOMICILE is the ceasing to reside permanently
in a former domicile coupled with the intention of choosing a new
domicile.  The presumptions which will guide the court in deciding
whether a former domicile has been abandoned or not must be
inferred from the facts of each individual case.  See DOMICILE.

ABANDONMENT OF AN EASEMENT is the relinquishment of some
accommodation or right in another's land, such as right of
way, free access of light and air, &c. See EASEMENT.

ABANDONMENT OF RAILWAYS has a legal signification in England
recognized by statute, by authority of which the Board of
Trade may, under certain circumstances, grant a warrant to a
railway authorizing the abandonment of its line or part of it.

ABANO, PIETRO D, (1250-1316), known also as PETRUS DE
APONO or APONENSIS, Italian physician and philosopher,
was born at the Italian town from which he takes his name
in 1250, or, according to others, in 1246.  After studying
medicine and philosophy at Paris he settled at Padua, where
he speedily gained a great reputation as a physician, and
availed himself of it to gratify his avarice by refusing
to visit patients except for an exorbitant fee.  Perhaps
this, as well as his meddling with astrology, caused him to
be charged with practising magic, the particular accusations
being that he brought back into his purse, by the aid of the
devil, all the money he paid away, and that he possessed the
philosopher's stone.  He was twice brought to trial by the
Inquisition; on the first occasion he was acquitted, and he
died (1316) before the second trial was completed.  He was
found guilty, however, and his body was ordered to be exhumed
and burned; but a friend had secretly removed it, and the
Inquisition had, therefore, to content itself with the public
proclamation of its sentence and the burning of Abano in
effigy.  In his writings he expounds and advocates the medical
and philosophical systems of Averroes and other Arabian
writers.  His best known works are the Conciliator differentiarum
quae inter philosophos et medicos versantur (Mantua, 1472;
V.enice, 1476), and De venenis eorumque remediis (1472),
of which a French translation was published at Lyons in 1593.

ABANO BAGNI, a town of Venetia, Italy, in the province of
Padua, on the E. slope of the Monti Euganei; it is 6 m.  S.W.
by rail from Padua.  Pop. (1901) 4556.  Its hot springs and
mud baths are much resorted to, and were known to the Ronlans
as Aponi fons or Aquae Patavinae. Some remains of the
ancient baths have been discovered (S. Mandruzzato, Trattato
dei Bagni d' Abano, Padua, 1789).  An oracle of Geryon lay
near, and the so-called sortes Praenestinae (C.I.L. i.,
Berlin, 1863; 1438-1454), small bronze cylinders inscribed, and
used as oracles, were perhaps found here in the 16th century.

ABARIS, a Scythian or Hyperborean, priest and prophet
of Apollo, who is said to have visited Greece about 770
B.C., or two or three centuries later.  According to
the legend, he travelled throughout the country, living
without food and riding on a golden arrow, the gift of
the god; he healed the sick, foretold the future, worked
miracles, and delivered Sparta from a plague (Herod. iv. 36;
Iamblichus, De Fit. Pythag. xix. 28). Suidas credits him
with several works: Scythian oracles, the visit of Apollo to
the Hyperboreans, expiatory formulas and a prose theogony.

ABATED, an ancient technical term applied in masonry and
metal work to those portions which are sunk beneath the
surface, as in inscriptions where the ground is sunk round
the letters so as to leave the letters or ornament in relief.

ABATEMENT (derived through the French abattre, from the
Late Latin battere, to beat), a beating down or diminishing or
doing away with; a term used especially in various legal phrases.

ABATEMENT OF A NUISANCE is the remedy allowed by law to
a person or public authority injured by a public nuisance
of destroying or removing it, provided no breach of the
peace is committed in doing so.  In the case of private
nuisances abatement is also allowed provided there be no
breach of the peace, and no damage be occasioned beyond
what the removal of the nuisance requires. (See NUISANCE.)

ABATEMENT OF FREEHOLD takes place where, after the death of
the person last seised, a stranger enters upon lands before
the entry of the heir or devisee, and keeps the latter out of
possession.  It differs from intrusion, which is a similar
entry by a stranger on the death of a tenant for life, to
the prejudice of the reversioner, or remainder man; and from
disseisin, which is the forcible or fraudulent expulsion
of a person seised of the freehold. (See FREEHOLD.)

ABATEMENT OE DEBTS AND LEGACIES. When the equitable assets
(see ASSETS) of a deceased person are not sufficient to
satisfy fully all the creditors, their debts must abate
proportionately, and they must accept a dividend.  Also, in
the case of legacies when the funds or assets out of which
they are payable are not sufficient to pay them in full, the
legacies abate in proportion, unless there is a priority given
specially to any particular legacy (see LEGACY). Annuities
are also subject to the same rule as general legacies.


ABATEMENT IN PLEADING, or plea in abatement, was the
defeating or quashing of a particular action by some matter of
fact, such as a defect in form or the personal incompetency
of the parties suing, pleaded by the defendant.  It did not
involve the merits of the cause, but left the right of action
subsisting.  In criminal proceedings a plea in abatement was at
one time a common practice in answer to an indictment, and was
set up for the purpose of defeating the indictment as framed,
by alleging misnomer or other misdescription of the defendant.
Its effect for this purpose was nullified by the Criminal Law
Act 1826, which required the court to amend according to the
truth, and the Criminal Procedure Act 1851, which rendered
description of the defendant unnecessary.  All pleas in abatement
are now abolished (R.S.G.  Order 21, r. 20). See PLEADING.

ABATEMENT IN LITIGATION. In civil proceedings, no action
abates by reason of the marriage, death or bankruptcy of any
of the parties, if the cause of action survives or continues,
and does not become defective by the assignment, creation or
devolution of any estate or title pendente lite (R.S.C. Order
17, r. 1). Criminal proceedings do not abate on the death of
the prosecutor, being in theory instituted by the crown, but
the crown itself may bring about their termination without any
decision on the merits and without the assent of the prosecutor.

ABATEMENT OF FALSE LIGHTS. By the Merchant Shipping Act
1854, the general lighthouse authority (see LIGHTHOUSE) has
power to order the extinguishment or screening of any light
which may be mistaken for a light proceeding from a lighthouse.

ABATEMENT IN COMMERCE is a deduction sometimes made at a
custom-house from the fixed duties on certain kinds of goods, on
account of damage or loss sustained in warehouses.  The rate and
conditions of such deductions are regulated, in England, by the
Customs Consolidation Act 1853. (See also DRAWBACK; REBATE.)

ABATEMENT IN HERALDRY is a badge in coat-armour, indicating some
kind of degradation or dishonour.  It is called also rebatement.

ABATI, or DELL' ABBATO, NICCOLO (1512--1571), a celebrated
fresco-painter of Modena, whose best works are there and at
Bologna.  He accompanied Primaticcio to France, and assisted
in decorating the palace at Fontainebleau (1552--1571).  His
pictures exhibit a combination of skill in drawing, grace
and natural colouring.  Some of his easel pieces in oil are
in different collections; one of the finest, in the Dresden
Gallery, represents the martyrdom of St Peter and St Paul.

ABATIS,ABATTIS or ABBATTIS (a French word meaning
a heap of material thrown), a term in field fortification
for an obstacle formed of the branches of trees laid
in a row, with the tops directed towards the enemy and
interlaced or tied with wire.  The abatis is used alone or
in combination with wire-entanglements and other obstacles.

ABATTOIR (from abattre, to strike down), a French word often
employed in English as an equivalent of ``slaughter-house''
(q.v.), the place where animals intended for food are killed.

ABAUZIT, FIRMIN (1679-1767), a learned Frenchman, was born of
Protestant parents at Uzes, in Languedoc.  His father died when
he was but two years of age; and when, on the revocation of the
edict of Nantes in 1685, the authorities took steps to have him
educated in the Roman Catholic faith, his mother contrived his
escape.  For two years his brother and he lived as fugitives in
the mountains of the Cevennes, but they at last reached Geneva,
where their mother afterwards joined them on escaping from
the imprisonment in which she was held from the time of their
flight.  Abauzit at an early age acquired great proficiency in
languages, physics and theology.  In 1698 he went to Holland,
and there became acquainted with Pierre Bayle, P. Jurieu and J.
Basnage.  Proceeding to England, he was introduced to Sir Isaac
Newton, who found in him one of the earliest defenders of his
discoveries.  Sir Isaac corrected in the second edition of
his Principia an error pointed out by Abauzit, and, when
sending him the Commercium Epistolicum, said, ``You are
well worthy to judge between Leibnitz and me.'' The reputation
of Abauzit induced William III. to request him to settle in
England, but he did not accept the king's offer, preferring
to return to Geneva.  There from 1715 he rendered valuable
assistance to a society that had been formed for translating
the New Testament into French.  He declined the offer of
the chair of philosophy in the university in 1723, but
accepted, in 1727, the sinecure office of librarian to the
city of his adoption.  Here he died at a good old age, in
1767.  Abauzit was a man of great learning and of wonderful
versatility.  Whatever chanced to be discussed,it used to be
said of Abauzit, as of Professor W. Whewell of more modern
times, that he seemed to have made it a subject of particular
study.  Rousseau, who was jealously sparing of his praises,
addressed to him, in his Nouvelle Heloise, a fine panegyric;
and when a stranger flatteringly told Voltaire he had come
to see a great man, the philosopher asked him if he had seen
Abauzit.  Little remains of the labours of this intellectual
giant, his heirs having, it is said, destroyed the papers
that came into their possession, because their own religious
opinions were different.  A few theological, archaeological
abd astronomical articles from his pen appeared in the
Journal Helvetique and elsewhere, and he contributed
several papers to Rousseau's Dictionnaire de musique
(1767).  He wrote a work throwing doubt on the canonical
authority of the Apocalypse, which called forth a reply
from Dr Leonard Twells.  He also edited and made valuable
additions to J. Spon's Histoire de la republique de Geneve.
A collection of his writings was published at Geneva in
1770 (OEuvres de feu M. Abauzit), and another at London
in 1773 (OEuvres diverses de M. Abauzit). Some of them
were translated into English by Dr Edward Harwood (1774).

Information regarding Abauzit will be found in J.
Senebier's HIstoire Litteraire de Geneve, Harwood's
Miscellanies, and W. Orme's Bibliotheca Biblica (1824).

'ABAYE, the name of a Babylonian 'amora (q.v.),
born in the middle of the 3rd century.  He died in 339.

'ABBA 'ARIKA, the name of thc Babylonian 'amora (q.v.) of
the 3rd century, who established at Sura the systematic study
of the Rabbinic traditions which, using the Mishnah as text, led
to the compilation of the Talmud.  He is commonly known as Rab.

ABBADIDES, a Mahommedan dynasty which arose in Spain on the
downfall of the western caliphate.  It lasted from about 1023
till 1091, but during the short period of its existence was
singularly active and typical of its time.  The founder of
the house was Abd-ul-Qasim Mahommed, the cadi of Seville in
1023.  He was the chief of an Arab family settled in the city
from the first days of the conquest.  The Beni-abbad were not
of ancient descent, though the poets, whom they paid largely,
made an illustrious pedigree for them when they had become
powerful.  They were, however, very rich.  Abd-ul-Qasim gained
the confidence of the townsmen by organizing a successful
resistance to the Berber soldiers of fortune who were grasping
at the fragments of the caliphate.  At first he professed to
rule only with the advice of a council formed of the nobles,
but when his power became established he dispensed with this
show of republican government, and then gave himself the
appearance of a legitimate title by protecting an impostor
who professed to be the caliph Hisham II. When Abd-ul-Qasim
died in 1042 he had created a state which, though weak in
itself, was strong as compared to the little powers about
it.  He had made his family the recognized leaders of the
Mahommedans of Arab and native Spanish descent against
the Berber element, whose chief was the king of Granada.
Abbad, surnamed El Motaddid, his son and successor, is
one of the most remarkable figures in Spanish Mahommedan
history.  He had a striking resemblance to the Italian princes
of the later middle ages and the early renaissance, of the
stamp of Fiiipo Maria Visconti.  El Motaddid was a poet and
a lover of letters, who was also a poisoner, a drinker of
wine, a sceptic and treacherous to the utmost degree.  Though
he waged war all through his reign he very rarely appeared in
the field, but directed the generals, whom he never trusted,
from his ``lair'' in the fortified palace, the Alcazar of
Seville.  He killed with his own hand one of his sons who had
rebelled against him.  On one occasion he trapped a number
of his enemies, the Berber chiefs of the Ronda, into visiting
him, and got rid of them by smothering them in the hot room
of a bath.  It was his taste to preserve the skulls of the
enemies he had killed--those of the meaner men to be used as
flower-pots, while those of the princes were kept in special
chests.  His reign until his death on the 28th of February
1069 was mainly spent in extending his power at the expense
of his smaller neighbours, and in conflicts with his chief
rival the king of Granada.  These incessant wars weakened the
Mahommedans, to the great advantage of the rising power of
the Christian kings of Leon and Castile, but they gave the
kingdom of Seville a certain superiority over the other little
states.  After 1063 he was assailed by Fernando El Magno of
Castile and Leon, who marched to the gates of Seville, and
forced him to pay tribute.  His son, Mahommed Abd-ul-Qasim
Abenebet---who reigned by the title of El Motamid--was the
third and last of the Abbadides, He was a no less remarkable
person than his father and much more amiable.  Like him he was
a poet, and a favourer of poets.  El Motamid went, however,
considerably further in patronage of literature than his father,
for he chose as his favourite and prime minister the poet Ibn
Ammar.  In the end the vanity and featherheadedness of Ibn
Ammar drove his master to kill him.  El Motamid was even
more influenced by his favourite wife, Romaica, than by his
vizir.  He had met her paddling in the Guadalquivir, purchased
her from her master, and made her his wife.  The caprices
of Romaica, and the lavish extravagance of Motamid in his
efforts to please her, form the subject of many stories.
In politics he carried on the feuds of his family with the
Berbers, and in his efforts to extend his dominions could be
as faithless as his father.  His wars and his extravagance
exhausted his treasury, and he oppressed his subjects by
taxes.  In 1080 he brought down upon himself the vengeance of
Alphonso VI. of Castile by a typical piece of flighty oriental
barbarity.  He had endeavoured to pay part of his tribute to the
Christian king with false money.  The fraud was detected by a
Jew, who was one of the envoys of Alphonso.  El Motamid, in
a moment of folly and rage, crucified the Jew and imprisoned
the Christian members of the mission.  Alphonso retaliated
by a destructive raid.  When Alphonso took Toledo in 1085,
El Motamid called in Yusef ibn Tashfin, the Almoravide (see
SPAIN, History, and ALMORAVIDES). During the six years
which preceded his deposition in 1091, El Motamid behaved
with valour on the field, but with much meanness and political
folly.  He endeavoured to curry favour with Yusef by betraying
the other Mahommedan princes to him, and intrigued to secure
the alliance of Alphonso against the Almoravide.  It was
probably during this period that he surrendered his beautiful
daughter Zaida to the Christian king, who made her his
concubine, and is said by some authorities to have married
her after she bore him a son, Sancho.  The vacillations and
submissions of El Motamid did not save him from the fate
which overtook his fellow-princes.  Their scepticism and
extortion had tired their subjects, and the mullahs gave Yusef
a ``fetva'' authorzing him to remove them in the interest of
religion.  In 1091 the Almoravides stormed Seville.  El
Motamid, who had fought bravely, was weak enough to order his
sons to surrender the fortresses they still held, in order
to save his own life.  He died in prison in Africa in 1095.

AUTHORITIES.--Dozy, Histoire des Musulmans d'Espagne,
Leiden, 1861; and Historia Abbadidarum (Scriptorum
Arabum loci de Abbadidio), Leiden, 1846. (D. II.)

ABBADIE, ANTOINE THOMSON D', (1810-1897), and ARNAUD MICHEL
D', (1815-1893), two brothers notable for their travels in
Abyssinia during the first half of the 19th century.  They
were both born in Dublin, of a French father and an Irish
mother, Antoine in 1810 and Arnaud in 1815.  The parents
removed to France in 1818, and there the brothers received
a careful scientific education.  In 1835 the French Academy
sent Antoine on a scientific mission to Brazil, the results
being published at a later date (1873) under the title of
Observations relatives a! la physique du globe faites au
Bresil et en Ethiopie. The younger Abbadie spent some
time in Algeria before, in 1837, the two brothers started for
Abyssinia, landing at Massawa in February 1838.  They visited
various parts of Abyssinia, including the then little-known
districts of Ennarea and Kaffa, sometimes together and
sometimes separately.  They met with many difficulties and
many adventures, and became involved in political intrigues,
Antoine especially exercising such influence as he possessed
in favour of France and the Roman Catholic missionaries.  After
collecting much valuable information concerning the geography,
geology, archaeology and natural history of Abyssinia, the
brothers returned to France in 1848 and began to prepare their
materials for publication.  The younger brother, Arnaud, paid
another visit to Abyssinia in 1853.  The more distinguished
brother, Antoine, became involved in various controversies
relating both to his geographical results and his political
intrigues.  He was especially attacked by C. T. Beke, who
impugned his veracity, especially with reference to the journey to
Kana.  But time and the investigations of subsequent explorers
have shown that Abbadie was quite trustworthy as to his facts,
though wrong in his contention--hotly contested by Beke--that
the Blue Nile was the main stream.  The topographical results
of his explorations were published in Paris in 1860-1873 in
Geodesie d'Ethiopie, full of the most valuable information and
illustrated by ten maps.  Of the Geographie de l'Ethiopie
(Paris, 1890) only one volume has been published.  In Un
Catalogue raisonne de manuscrits ethiopiens (Paris, 1859)
is a description of 234 Ethiopian manuscripts collected by
Antoine.  He also compiled various vocabularies, including
a Dictionnaire de la langue amarinna (Paris, 1881), and
prepared an edition of the Shepherd of Hermas, with the
Latin version, in 1860.  He published numerous papers dealing
with the geography of Abyssinia, Ethiopian coins and ancient
inscriptions.  Under the title of Reconnaissances magnetiques
he published in 1890 an account of the magnetic observations
made by him in the course of several journeys to the Red
Sea and the Levant.  The general account of the travels of
the two brothers was published by Arnaud in 1868 under the
title of Douze ans dans la Haute Ethiopie. Both brothers
received the grand medal of the Paris Geographical Society in
1850.  Antoine was a knight of the Legion of Honour and a
member of the Academy of Sciences.  He died in 1897, and
bequeathed an estate in the Pyrenees, yielding 40,000 francs
a year, to the Academy of Sciences, on condition of its
producing within fifty years a catalogue of half-a-million
stars.  His brother Arnaud died in 1893. (J. S. K.)

ABBADIE, JAKOB (1654?-1727), Swiss Protestant divine,
was born at Nay in Bern.  He studied at Sedan, Saumur and
Puylaurens, with such success that he received the degree of
doctor in theology at the age of seventeen.  After spending
some years in Berlin as minister of a French Protestant church,
where he had great success as a preacher, he accompanied
Marshal Schomberg, in 1688, to England, and next year became
minister of the French church in the Savoy, London.  His
strong attachment to the cause of King William appears in
his elaborate defence of the Revolution (Defense de la
nation britannique, 1692) as well as in his history of the
conspiracy of 1696 (Histoire de la grande conspiration
d'Angleterre). The king promoted him to the deanery of Killaloe
in Ireland.  He died in London in 1727.  Abbadie was a man
of great ability and an eloquent preacher, but is best known
by his religious treatises, several of which were translated
from the original French into other languages and had a wide
circulation throughout Europe.  The most important of these are
Traite de la verite de la religion chretienne (1684); its
continuation, Traite de la divinite de Jesus-Christ
(1689); and L'Art de se connaitre soi-meme (1692).

'ABBAHU, the name of a Palestinian 'amora (q.v.)
who flourished c. 279-320. 'Abbahu encouraged the
study of Greek by Jews.  He was famous as a collector of
traditional lore, and is very often cited in the Talmud.

ABBA MARI (in full, Abba Mari ben Moses benJoseph), French
rabbi, was born at Lunel, near Montpellier, towards the end of
the 13th century.  He is also known as Yarhi from his birthplace
(Heb.  Yerah, i.e. moon, lune), and he further took the
name Astruc, Don Astruc or En Astruc of Lunel.  The descendant
of men learned in rabbinic lore, Abba Mari devoted himself
to the study of theology and philosophy, and made himself
acquainted with the writing of Moses Maimonides and Nachmanides
as well as with the Talmud.  In Montpellier, where he lived
from 1303 to 1306, he was much distressed by the prevalence
of Aristotelian rationalism, which, through the medium of
the works of Maimonides, threatened the authority of the Old
Testament, obedience to the law, and the belief in miracles and
revelation.  He, therefore, in a series of letters (afterwards
collected under the title Minhat Kenaot, i.e. ``Jealousy
Offering'') called upon the famous rabbi Solomon ben Adret
of Barcelona to come to the aid of orthodoxy.  Ben Adret,
with the approval of other prominent Spanish rabbis, sent a
letter to the community at Montpellier proposing to forbid the
study of philosophy to those who were less than thirty years
of age, and, in spite of keen opposition from the liberal
section, a decree in this sense was issued by ben Adret in
1305.  The result was a great schism among the Jews of Spain
and southern France, and a new impulse was given to the study
of philosophy by the unauthorized interference of the Spanish
rabbis.  On the expulsion of the Jews from France by Philip
IV. in 1306, Abba Mari settled at Perpignan, where he
published the letters connected with the controversy.  His
subsequent history is unknown.  Beside the letters, he was
the author of liturgical poetry and works on civil law.

AUTHORITIES.--Edition of the Minhat Kenaot by M. L.
Bislichis (Pressburg, 1838); E. Renan, Les rabbins francais,
pp. 647 foll.; Perles, Salomo ben Abrahann ben Adereth,
pp. 15-54; Jewish Encyclopaedia, s.v. ``Abba Mari.''

ABBAS I. (1813-1854), pasha of Egypt, was a son of Tusun
Pasha and grandson of Mehemet Ali, founder of the reigning
dynasty.  As a young man he fought in Syria under Ibrahim Pasha
(q.v.), his real or supposed uncle.  The death of Ibrahim
in November 1848 made Abbas regent of Egypt, and in August
following, on the death of Mehemet Alh--who had been deposed
in July 1848 on account of mental weakness,--Abbas succeeded
to the pashalik.  He has been generally described as a mere
voluptuary, but Nubar Pasha spoke of him as a true Turkish
gentleman of the old school.  He was without question a
reactionary, morose and taciturn, and spent nearly all his
time shut up in his palace.  He undid, as far as lay in his
power, the works of his grandfather, good and bad.  Among
other things he abolished trade monopolies, closed factories
and schools, and reduced the strength of the army to 9000
men.  He was inaccessible to adventurers bent on plundering
Egypt, but at the instance of the British government
allowed the construction of a railway from Alexandria to
Cairo.  In July 1854 he was murdered in Benha Palace by two
of his slaves, and was succeeded by his uncle, Said Pasha.

ABBAS II. (1874-- ), khedive of Egypt.  Abbas Hilmi Pasha,
great-great-grandson of Mehemet Ali, born on the 14th of
July 1874, succeeded his father, Tewfik Pasha, as khedive
of Egypt on the 8th of January 1892.  When a boy he visited
England, and he had an English tutor for some time in
Cairo.  He then went to school in Lausanne, and from there
passed on to the Theresianum in Vienna.  In addition to
Turkish, his mother tongue, he acquired fluency in Arabic,
and a good conversational knowledge of English, French and
German.  He was still at college in Vienna when the sudden
death of his father raised him to the Khedivate; and he was
barely of age according to Turkish law, which fixes majority
at eighteen in cases of succession to the throne.  For
some time he did not co-operate very cordially with Great
Britain.  He was young and eager to exercise his new
power.  His throne and life had not been saved for him by the
British, as was the case with his father.  He was surrounded
by intriguers who were playing a game of their own, and for
some time he appeared almost disposed to be as reactionary
as his great-uncle Abbas I. But in process of time he learnt
to understand the importance of British counsels.  He paid
a second visit to England in 1900, during which he frankly
acknowledged the great good the British had done in Egypt,
and declared himself ready to follow their advice and to
co-operate with the British officials administering Egyptian
affairs.  The establishment of a sound system of native
justice, the great remission of taxation, the reconquest
of the Sudan, the inauguration of the stupendous irrigation
works at Assuan, the increase of cheap, sound education,
each received his approval and all the assistance he could
give.  He displayed more interest in agriculture than in
statecraft, and his farm of cattle and horses at Koubah,
near Cairo, would have done credit to any agricultural
show in England; at Montaza, near Alexandria, he created
a similar establishment.  He married the Princess Ikbal
Hanem and had several children.  Mahommed Abdul Mouneim,
the heir-apparent, was born on the 20th of February 1899.

ABBAS I. (e. 1557-1628 or 1629), shah of Persia, called
the Great, was the son of shah Mahommed (d. 1586) . In the
midst of general anarchy in Persia, he was proclaimed ruler of
Khorasan, and obtained possession of the Persian throne in
1586.  Determined to raise the fallen fortunes of his country,
he first directed his efforts against the predatory Uzbegs,
who occupied and harassed Khorasan.  After a long and severe
struggle, he regained Meshed, defeated them in a great battle
near Herat in 1597, and drove them out of his dominions.  In
the wars he carried on with the Turks during nearly the whole
of his reign, his successes were numerous, and he acquired,
or regained, a large extent of territory.  By the victory he
gained at Bassora in 1605 he extended his empire beyond the
Euphrates; sultan Ahmed I. was forced to cede Shirvan and
Kurdistan in 1611; the united armies of the Turks and Tatars
were completely defeated near Sultanieh in 1618, and Abbas
made peace on very favourable terms; and on the Turks renewing
the war, Bagdad fell into his hands after a year's siege in
1623.  In 1622 he took the island of Ormuz from the Portuguese,
by the assistance of the British, and much of its trade was
diverted to the town of Bander-Abbasi, which was named after the
shah.  When he died, his dominions reached from the Tigris
to the Indus.  Abbas distinguished himself, not only by his
successes in arms, and by the magnificence of his court and
of the buildings which he erected, but also by his reforms in
the administration of his kingdom.  He encouraged commerce,
and, by constructing highways and building bridges, did much
to facilitate it.  To foreigners, especially Christians, he
showed a spirit of tolerance; two Englishmen, Sir Anthony
and Sir Robert Shirley, or Sherley, were admitted to his
confidence.  His fame is tarnished, however, by numerous deeds
of tyranny and cruelty.  His own family, especially, suffered
from his fits of jealousy; his eldest son was slain, and
the eyes of his other children were put out, by his orders.

See The Three Brothers, or Travels of Sir Anthony, Sir
Robert Sherley, &c. (London, 1823); Sir C. R. Markham,
General Sketch of the History of Persia (London, 1874).

ABBASIDS, the name generally given to the caliphs of Bagdad,
the second of the two great dynasties of the Mahommedan
empire.  The Abbasid caliphs officially based their claim
to the throne on their descent from Abbas (A.D. 566-652),
the eldest uncle of Mahomet, in virtue of which descent they
regarded themselves as the rightful heirs of the Prophet as
opposed to the Omayyads, the descendants of Omayya.  Throughout
the second period of the Omayyads, representatives of this
family were among their most dangerous opponents, partly by
the skill with which they undermined the reputation of the
reigning princes by accusations against their orthodoxy,
their moral character and their administration in general,
and partly by their cunning manipulation of internecine
jealousies among the Arabic and non-Arabic subjects of the
empire.  In the reign of Merwan II. this opposition culminated
in the rebellion of Ibrahim the Imam, the fourth in descent
from Abbas, who, supported hy the province of Khorasan, achieved
considerable successes, but was captured (A.D. 747) and died
in prison (as some hold, assassinated).  The quarrel was taken
up by his brother Abdallah, known by the name of Abu'l-Abbas
as-Saffah, who after a decisive victory on the Greater Zab
(750) finally crushed the Omayyads and was proclaimed caliph.

The history of the new dynasty is marked by perpetual
strife and the development of luxury and the liberal arts,
in place of the old-fashioned austerity of thought and
manners.  Mansur, the second of the house, who transferred
the seat of government to Bagdad, fought successfully against
the peoples of Asia Minor, and the reigns of Harun al-Rashid
(786--809) and Mamun (813-833) were periods of extraordinary
splendour.  But the empire as a whole stagnated and then decayed
rapidly.  Independent monarchs established themselves in
Africa and Khorasan (Spain had remained Omayyad throughout),
and in the north-west the Greeks successfully encroached.
The ruin of the dynasty came, however, from those Turkish
slaves who were constituted as a royal bodyguard by Moqtasim
(833-842).  Their power steadily grew until Radi (934-941) was
constrained to hand over most of the royal functions to Mahommed
b.  Raik.  Province after province renounced the authority
of the caliphs, who were merely lay figures, and finally
Hulagu, the Mongol chief, burned Bagdad (Feb. 28th, 1258).
The Abbasids still maintained a feeble show of authority,
confined to religious matters, in Egypt under the Mamelukes,
but the dynasty finally disappeared with Motawakkil III., who
was carried away as a prisoner to Constantinople by Selim I.

See CALIPHATE (Sections B, 14 and C), where a
detailed account of the dynasty will be found.

ABBAS MIRZA (c. 1783-1833), prince of Persia, was a
younger son of the shah, Feth Ali, but on account of his
mother's royal birth was destined by his father to succeed
him.  Entrusted with the government of a part of Persia, he
sought to rule it in European fashion, and employed officers
to reorganize his army.  He was soon at war with Russia, and
his aid was eagerly solicited by both England and Napoleon,
anxious to checkmate one another in the East.  Preferring
the friendship of France, Abbas continued the war against
Russia, but his new ally could give him very little assistance,
and in 1814 Persia was compelled to make a disadvantageous
peace.  He gained some successes during a war between Turkey
and Persia which broke out in 1821, but cholera attacked his
army, and a treaty was signed in 1823.  His second war with
Russia, which began in 1825, was attended with the same want of
success as the former one, and Persia was forced to cede some
territory.  When peace was made in 1828 Abbas then sought
to restore order in the province of Khorasan, which was
nominally under Persian supremacy, and while engaged in the
task died at Meshed in 1833.  In 1834 his eldest son, Mahommed
Mirza, succeeded Feth Ali as shah.  Abbas was an intelligent
prince, possessed some literary taste, and it noteworthy
on account of the comparative simplicity of his life.

ABBAS-TUMAN, a spa in Russian Transcaucasia, government of
Tiflis, 50 m.  S.W. of the Borzhom railway station and 65
m.  E. of Batum, very picturesquely situated in a cauldron-shaped
valley.  It has hot sulphur baths (93 1/2 deg. -118 1/2 deg.
Fahr.) and an astronomical observatory (4240 ft.).

ABBAZIA, a popular summer and winter resort of Austria, in
Istria, 56 m.  S.E. of Trieste by rail.  Pop. (1900) 2343.  It
is situated on the Gulf of Quarnero in a sheltered position at
the foot of the Monte Maggiore (4580 ft.), and is surrounded
by beautiiul woods of laurel.  The average temperature is 50 deg.
Fahr. in winter, and 77 deg.  Fahr. in summer.  The old abbey,
San Giacomo della Priluca, from which the place derives its
name, has been converted into a villa.  Abbazia is frequented
annually by about 16,000 visitors.  The whole sea-coast to
the north and south of Abbazia is rocky and picturesque,
and contains several smaller winter-resorts.  The largest
of them is Lovrana (pop. 513), situated 5 m. to the south.

ABBESS (Lat. abbatissa, fem. form of abbas, abbot),
the female superior of an abbey or convent of nuns.  The
mode of election, position, rights and authority of an abbess
correspond generally with those of an abbot (q.v.). The
office is elective, the choice being by the secret votes of the
sisters from their own body.  The abbess is solemnly admitted
to her office by episcopal benediction, together with the
conferring of a staff and pectoral cross, and holds for life,
though liable to be deprived for misconduct.  The council of
Trent fixed the qualifying age at forty, with eight years of
profession.  Abbesses have a right to demand absolute obedience
of their nuns, over whom they exercise discipline, extending
even to the power of expulsion, subject, however, to the
bishop.  As a female an abbess is incapable of performing the
spiritual functions of the priesthood belonging to an abbot.
She cannot ordain, confer the veil, nor excommunicate.  In
England abbesses attended ecclesiastical councils, e.g. that
of Becanfield in 694, where they signed before the presbyters.

By Celtic usage abbesses presided over joint-houses of monks and
nuns.  This custom accompanied Celtic monastic missions to France
and Spain, and even to Rome itself.  At a later period, A.D.
1115, Robert, the founder of Fontevraud, committed the government
of the whole order, men as well as women, to a female superior.

In the German Evangelical church the title of abbess (Aebtissin)
has in some cases--e.g. Itzehoe--survived to designate the
heads of abbeys which since the Reformation have continued as
Stifte, i.e. collegiate foundations, which provide a home
and an income for unmarried ladies, generally of noble birth,
called canonesses (Kanonissinen) or more usually Stiftsdamen.
This office of abbess is of considerable social dignity, and
is sometimes filled by princesses of the reigning houses.

ABBEVILLE, a town of northern France, capital of an
arrondissement in the department of Somme, on the Somme, 12
m. from its mouth in the English Channel, and 28 m.  N,W. of
Amiens on the Northern railway.  Pop. (1901) 18,519; (1906)
18,971.  It lies in a pleasant and fertile valley, and is
built partly on an island and partly on both sides of the
river, which is canalized from this point to the estuary.  The
streets are narrow, and the houses are mostly picturesque old
structures, built of wood, with many quaint gables and dark
archways.  The most remarkable building is the church of St
Vulfran, erected in the 15th, 16th and 17th centuries.  The
original design was not completed.  The nave has only two bays
and the choir is insignificant.  The facade is a magnificent
specimen of the flamboyant Gothic style, flanked by two Gothic
towers.  Abbeville has several other old churches and an
hotel-de-ville, with a belfry of the 13th century.  Among
the numerous old houses, that known as the Maison de Francois
Ie, which is the most remarkable, dates from the 16th century.
There is a statue of Admiral Courbet (d. 1885) in the chief
square.  The public institutions include tribunals of first instance
and of commerce, a board of trade-arbitrators, and a communal
college.  Abbeville is an important industrial centre; in addition
to its old-established manufacture of cloth, hemp-spinning,
sugar-making, ship-building and locksmiths' work are carried on;
there is active commerce in grain, but the port has little trade.

Abbeville, the chief town of the district of Ponthieu, first
appears in history during the 9th century.  At that time
belonging to the abbey of St Riquier, it was afterwards
governed by the counts of Ponthieu.  Together with that county,
it came into the possession of the Alencon and other French
families, and afterwards into that of the house of Castillo,
from whom by marriage it fell in 1272 to Edward I., king of
England.  French and English were its masters by turns till
1435 when, by the treaty of Arras, it was ceded to the duke of
Burgundy.  In 1477 it was annexed by Louis XI., king of France,
and was held by two illegitimate branches of the royal family in
the 16th and 17th centuries, being in 1696 reunited to the crown.

ABBEY, EDWIN AUSTIN (1852- ), American painter, was born at
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on the 1st of April 1852.  He left
the schools of the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts at the
age of nineteen to enter the art department of the publishing
house of Harper & Brothers in New York, where, in company
with such men as Howard Pyle, Charles Stanley Reinhart, Joseph
Pennell and Alfred Parsons, he became very successful as an
illustrator.  In 1878 he was sent by the Harpers to England
to gather material for illustrations of the poems of Robert
Herrick.  These, published in 1882, attracted much attention,
and were followed by illustrations for Goldsmith's She
Stoops to Conquer (1887), for a volume of Old Songs
(1889), and for the comedies (and a few of the tragedies) of
Shakespeare.  His water-colours and pastels were no less
successful than the earlier illustrations in pen and ink.
Abbey now became closely identified with the art life of
England, and was elected to the Royal Institute of Painters
in Water-Colours in 1883.  Among his water-colours are ``The
Evil Eye'' (1877); ``The Rose in October'' (1879); ``An Old
Song'' (1886); ``The Visitors'' (1890), and ``The Jongleur''
(1892).  Possibly his best known pastels are ``Beatrice,''
``Phyllis,'' and ``Two Noble Kinsmen.'' In 1890 he made his
first appearance with an oil painting, ``A May Day Morn,'' at
the Royal Academy in London.  He exhibited ``Richard duke of
Gloucester and the Lady Anne'' at the Royal Academy in 1896,
and in that year was elected A.R.A., becoming a full R.A. in
1898.  Apart from his other paintings, special mention must
be made of the large frescoes entitled ``The Quest of the Holy
Grail,'' in the Boston Public Library, on which he was occupied
for some years; and in 1901 he was commissioned by King Edward
VII. to paint a picture of the coronation, containing many
portraits elaborately grouped.  The dramatic subjects, and the
brilliant colouring of his on pictures, gave them pronounced
individuality among the works of contemporary painters.
Abbey became a member not only of the Royal Academy, but also
of the National Academy of Design of New York, and honorary
member of the Royal Bavarian Society, the Societe Nationale
des Beaux Arts (Paris), the American Water-Colour Society,
etc.  He received first class gold medals at the International
Art Exhibition of Vienna in 1898, at Philadelphia in 1898,
at the Paris Exhibitions of 1889 and 1900, and at Berlin in
1903; and was made a chevalier of the French Legion of Honour.

ABBEY (Lat. abbatia; from Syr. abba, father), a
monastery, or conventual establishment, under the government
of an ABBOT or an ABBESS. A priory only differed from
an abbey in that the superior bore the name of prior instead
of abbot. This was the case in all the English conventual
cathedrals, e.g. Canterbury, Ely, Norwich, &c., where the
archbishop or bishop occupied the abbot's place, the superior
of the monastery being termed prior.  Other priories were
originally offshoots from the larger abbeys, to the abbots
of which they continued subordinate; but in later times the
actual distinction between abbeys and priories was lost.

The earliest Christian monastic communities (see MONASTICISM)
with which we are acquainted consisted of groups of cells or
huts collected about a common centre, which was usually the abode
of some anchorite celebrated for superior holiness or singular
asceticism, but without any attempt at orderly arrangement.
The formation of such communities in the East does not date
from the introduction of Christianity.  The example had been
already set by the Essenes in Judea and the Therapeutae in Egypt.

In the earliest age of Christian monasticism the ascetics
were accustomed to live singly, independent of one another,
at no great distance from some village, supporting themselves
by the labour of their own hands, and distributing the
surplus after the supply of their own scanty wants to the
poor.  Increasing religious fervour, aided by persecution,
drove them farther and farther away from the abodes of men
into mountain solitudes or lonely deserts.  The deserts
of Egypt swarmed with the ``cells'' or huts of these
anchorites.  Anthony, who had retired to the Egyptian Thebaid
during the persecution of Maximin, A.D. 312, was the most
celebrated among them for his austerities, his sanctity, and
his power as an exorcist.  His fame collected round him a
host of followers, emulous of his sanctity.  The deeper he
withdrew into the wilderness, the more numerous his disciples
became.  They refused to be separated from him, and built
their ceils round that of their spiritual father.  Thus arose
the first monastic community, consisting of anchorites living
each in his own little dwelling, united together under one
superior.  Anthony, as Neander remarks (Church History,
vol. iii. p. 316, Clark's trans.), ``without any conscious
design of his own, had become the founder of a new mode
of living in common, Coenobitism.'' By degrees order was
introduced in the groups of huts.  They were arranged in
lines like the tents in an encampment, or the houses in a
street.  From this arrangement these lines of single cells
came to be known as Laurae, Laurai, "streets" or "lanes."

The real founder of coenobian koinos, common, and bios,
life) monasteries in the modern sense was Pachomius, an Egyptian
of the beginning of the 4th century.  The first community
established by him was at Tabennae, an island of the Nile in Upper
Egypt.  Eight others were founded in his lifetime, numbering 3000
monks.  Within fifty years from his death his societies could
reckon 50,000 members.  These coenobia resembled vilIages,
peopled by a hard-working religious community, ail of one
sex.  The buildings were detached, small and of the humblest
character.  Each cell or hut, according to Sozomen (H.R. iii.
14), contained three monks.  They took their chief meal in a
common refectory at 3 P.M., up to which hour they usually
fasted.  They ate in silence, with hoods so drawn over their
faces that they could see nothing but what was on the table
before them.  The monks spent all the time, not devoted to
religious services or study, in manual labour.  Palladius,
who visited the Egyptian monasteries about the close of the
4th century, found among the 300 members of the coenobium of
Panopolis, under the Pachomian rule, 15 tailors, 7 smiths, 4
carpenters, 12 cameldrivers and 15 tanners.  Each separate
community had its own oeconomus or steward, who was subject
to a chief oeconomus stationed at the head establishment.
All the produce of the monks' labour was committed to him, and
by him shipped to Alexandria.  The money raised by the sale
was expended in the purchase of stores for the support of the
communities, and what was over was devoted to charity.  Twice
in the year the superiors of the several coenobia met at
the chief monastery, under the presidency of an archimandrite
(``the chief of the fold,'' from miandra, a fold), and at
the last meeting gave in reports of their administration for the
year.  The coenobia of Syria belonged to the Pachomian
institution.  We learn many details concerning those in the
vicinity of Antioch from Chrysostom's writings.  The monks
lived in separate huts, kalbbia, forming a religious hamlet
on the mountain side.  They were subject to an abbot, and
observed a common rule. (They had no refectory, but ate their
common meal, of bread and water only, when the day's labour
was over, reclining on strewn grass, sometimes out of doors,)
Four times in the day they joined in prayers and psalms.

Santa Laura, Mount Athos.

The necessity for defence from hostile attacks, economy of
space and convenience of access from one part of the community
to another, by degrees dictated a more compact and orderly
arrangement of the buildings of a monastic coenobium.  Large
piles of building were erected, with strong outside walls,
capable of resisting the assaults of an enemy, within which
all the necessary edifices were ranged round one or more
open courts, usually surrounded with cloisters.  The usual
Eastern arrangement is exemplified in the plan of the convent
of Santa Laura, Mount Athos (Laura, the designation of a
monastery generally, being converted into a female saint).

This monastery, like the oriental monasteries generally, is
surrounded by a strong and lofty blank stone wall, enclosing
an area of between 3 and 4 acres.  The longer side extends to
a length of about 500 feet.  There is only one main entrance,
on the north side (A), defended by three separate iron
doors.  Near the entrance is a large tower (M), a constant
feature in the monasteries of the Levant.  There is a small
postern gate at L. The enceinte comprises two large open
courts, surrounded with buildings connected with cloister
galleries of wood or stone.  The outer court, which is much the
larger, contains the granaries and storehouses (K), and the
kitchen (H) and other offices connected with the refectory
(G). Immediately adjacent to the gateway is a two-storied
guest-house, opening from a cloister (C). The inner court is
surrounded by a cloister (EE), from which open the monks' cells
(II).  In the centre of this court stands the catholicon
or conventual church, a square building with an apse of
the cruciform domical Byzantine type, approached by a domed
narthex.  In front of the church stands a marble fountain
(F), covered by a dome supported on columns.  Opening from
the western side of the cloister, but actually standing in
the outer court, is the refectory (G), a large cruciform
building, about 100 feet each way, decorated within with
frescoes of saints.  At the upper end is a semicircular
recess, recalling the triclinium of the Lateran Palace

                                                  A. Gateway.
                                                  B. Chapels.
                                                  C. Guest-house.
                                                  D. Church.
                                                  E. Cloister.
                                                  F. Fountain.
                                                  G. Refectory.
                                                  H. Kitchen.
                                                  I. Cells.
                                                  K. Storehouses.
                                                  L. Postern gate.
                                                  M. Tower.
FIG. 1.---Monastery of Santa Laura, Mount Athos (Lenoir).

at Rome, in which is placed the seat of the hegumenos or
abbot.  This apartment is chiefly used as a hall of meeting, the
oriental monks usually taking their meals in their separate cells.

Vatopede

St Laura is exceeded in magnitude by the convent of Vatopede
also on Mount Athos.  This enormous establishment covers at
least 4 acres of ground, and contains so many separate buildings
within its massive walls that it resembles a fortified town.  It
lodges above 300 monks, and the establishment of the hegumenos is
described as resembling the court of a petty sovereign prince.
The immense refectory, of the same cruciform shape as that of
St Laura, will accommodate 500 guests at its 24 marble tables.

The annexed plan of a Coptic monastery, from Lenoir,
shows a church of three aisles, with cellular apses, and
two ranges of cells on either side of an oblong gallery.

Benedictine.

Monasticism in the West owes its extension and development
to Benedict of Nursia (born A.D. 480).  His rule was
diffused with miraculous rapidity from the parent foundation
on Monte Cassino through the whole of western Europe, and
every country witnessed the erection of monasteries far
exceeding anything that had yet been seen in spaciousness and
splendour.  Few great towns in Italy were without their
Benedictine convent, and they quickly rose in all the great
centres of population in England, France and Spain.  The number
of these monasteries founded between A.D. 520 and 700 is
amazing.  Before the Council of Constance, A.D. 1415, no
fewer than 15,070 abbeys had been established of this order
alone.  The buildings of a Benedictine abbey were uniformly
arranged ofter one plan, modified where necessary (as at
Durham and Worcester, where the monasteries stand close to the
steep bank of a river) to accommodate the arrangement to local
circumstances.  We have no existing examples of the earlier
monasteries of the Benedictine order.  They have all yielded
to the ravages of time and the violence of man.  But we
have fortunately preserved to us an elaborate plan of the
great Swiss monastery of St Gall, erected about A.D. 820,
which puts us in possession of the whole arrangements of a
monastery of the first class towards the early part of the 9th
century.  This curious and interesting plan has been made
the subject of a memoir both by Keller (Zurich, 1844) and by
Professor Robert Willis (Arch. Journal, 1848, vol. v. pp.
86-117.  To the latter we are indebted for the substance of
the following description, as well as for the plan, reduced
from his elucidated transcript of the original preserved

 FIG. 2.---Plan of Coptic Monastery.
A. Narthex. B. Church.
C. Corridor, with cells on each side.
D. Staircase.

in the archives of the convent.  The general apperance
of the convent is that of a town of isolated houses with
streets running between them.  It is evidently planned in
compliance with the Benedictine rule, which enjoined that,
if possible, the monastery should contain within itself
every necessary of life, as well as the buildings more
intimately connected with the religious and social life of its
inmates.  It should comprise a mill, a bakehouse, stables
and cow-houses, together with accommodation for carrying
on all necessary mechanical arts within the walls, so as to
obviate the necessity of the monks going outside its limits.

The general distribution of the buildings may be thus
described:-The church, with its cloister to the south, occupies
the centre of a quadrangular area, about 430 feet square.  The
buildings, as in all great monasteries, are distributed into
groups.  The church forms the nucleus, as the centre of the
religious life of the community.  In closest connexion with
the church is the group of buildings appropriated to the
monastic line and its daily requirements---the refectory for
eating, the dormitory for sleeping, the common room for social
intercourse, the chapter-house for religious and disciplinary
conference.  These essential elements of monastic life
are ranged about a cloister court, surrounded by a covered
arcade, affording communication sheltered ftom the elements
between the various buildings.  The infirmary for sick monks,
with the physician's house and physic garden, lies to the
east.  In the same group with the infirmary is the school for
the novices.  The outer school, with its headmaster's house
against the opposite wall of the church, stands outside the
convent enclosure, in close proximity to the abbot's house,
that he might have a constant eye over them.  The buildings
devoted to hospitality are divided into three groups,--one
for the reception of distinguished guests, another for monks
visiting the monastery, a third for poor travellers and
pilgrims.  The first and third are placed to the right and
left of the common entrance of the monastery,---the hospitium
for distinguished guests being placed on the north side of the
church, not far from the abbot's house; that for the poor
on the south side next to the farm buildings.  The monks are
lodged in a guest-house built against the north wall of the
church.  The group of buildings connected with the material
wants of the establishment is placed to the south and west
of the church, and is distinctly separated from the monastic
buildings.  The kitchen, buttery and offices are reached by a
passage from the west end of the refectory, and are connected
with the bakehouse and brewhouse, which are placed still farther
away.  The whole of the southern and western sides is devoted to
workshops, stables and farm-buildings.  The buildings, with some
exceptions, seem to have been of one story only, and all but
the church were probably erected of wood.  The whole includes
thirty-three separate blocks.  The church (D) is cruciform,
with a nave of nine bays, and a semicircular apse at either
extremity.  That to the west is surrounded by a semicircular
colonnade, leaving an open ``paradise'' (E) between it and
the wall of the church.  The whole area is divided by screens
into various chapels.  The high altar (A) stands immediately
to the east of the transept, or ritual choir; the altar
of St Paul (B) in the eastern, and that of St Peter (C) in
the western apse.  A cylindrical campanile stands detached
from the church on either side of the western apse (FF).

The ``cloister court', (G) on the south side of the nave of the

 FIG. 3.--Ground-plan of St


  CHURCH.                          U. House for blood-letting.
  A. High altar.                   V. School.
  B. Altar of St Paul.             W. Schoolmaster's lodgings.
  C. Altar of St Peter.            X1X1. Guest-house for those
  D. Nave.                                  of superior rank
  E. Paradise.                     X2X2. Guest-house for the poor.
  FF. Towers.                      Y. Guest-chamber for strange monks.
  MONASTIC BUILDINGS
  G. Cloister.                     MENIAL DEPARTMENT.
  H. Calefactory, with             Z. Factory.
     dormitory over.               a. Threshing-floor
  I. Necessary.                    b. Workshops.
  J. Abbot's house.                c, c. Mills.
  K. Refectory.                    d. Kiln.
  L. Kitchen.                      e. Stables.
  M. Bakehouse and brewhouse.      f Cow-sheds.
  N. Cellar.                       g. Goat-sheds.
  O. Parlour.               (over. h. Pig-sties. i. Sheep-folds.
  P1. Scriptorium with library  k, k, k. Servants' and workmen's
  P2. Sacristy and vestry.                     sleeping-chambers.
  Q. House of Novices--1.chapel;   l. Gardener's house
    2. refectory; 3. calefactory;  m,m. Hen and duck house.
    4. dormitory; 5. master's room n. Poultry-keeper's house.
    6. chambers.                   o. Garden.
  R. Infirmary--1--6 as above in   q. Bakehouse for sacramental
     the house of novices.
  S. Doctor's house.               s, s, s. Kitchens.
  T. Physic garden.                t, t, t. Baths.


church has on its east side the ``pisalis'' or ``calefactory',
(H), the common sitting-room of the brethren, warmed by
flues beneath the floor.  On this side in later monasteries
we invariably find the chapterhouse, the absence of
which in this plan is somewhat surprising.  It appears,
however, from the inscriptions on the plan itself, that the
north walk of the cloisters served for the purposes of a
chapter-house, and was fitted up with benches on the long
sides.  Above the calefactory is the ``dormitory'' opening
into the south transept of the church, to enable the monks
to attend the nocturnal services with readiness.  A passage
at the other end leads to the ``necessarium'' (I), a portion
of the monastic buildings always planned with extreme
care.  The southern side is occupied by the ``refectory''
(K), from the west end of which by a vestibule the kitchen
(L) is reached.  This is separated from the main buildings
of the monastery, and is connected by a long passage with
a building containing the bake house and brewhouse (M), and
the sleeping-rooms of the servants.  The upper story of the
refectory is the ``vestiarium,'' where the ordinary clothes of
the brethren were kept.  On the western side of the cloister
is another two story building (N). The cellar is below,
and the larder and store-room above.  Between this building
and the church, opening by one door into the cloisters, and
by another to the outer part of the monastery area, is the
``parlour'' for interviews with visitors from the external
world (O). On the eastern side of the north transept is the
``scriptorium'' or writing-room (P1), with the library above.

To the east of the church stands a group of buildings comprising
two miniature conventual establishments, each complete in
itself.  Each has a covered cloister surrounded by the usual
buildings, i.e. refectory, dormitory, &c., and a church or
chapel on one side, placed back to back.  A detached building
belonging to each contains a bath and a kitchen.  One of these
diminutive convents is appropriated to the ``oblati'' or novices
(Q), the other to the sick monks as an ``imfirmary'' (R).

The ``residence of the physicians'' (S) stands contiguous to the
infirmary, and the physic garden (T) at the north-east corner of
the monastery.  Besides other rooms, it contains a drug store,
and a chamber for those who are dangerously ill.  The ``house
for bloodletting and purging'' adjoins it on the west (U).

The ``outer school,'' to the north of the convent area, contains
a large schoolroom divided across the middle by a screen or
partition, and surrounded by fourteen little rooms, termed
the dwellings of the scholars.  The head-master's house (W)
is opposite, built against the side wall of the church.  The
two ``hospitia'' or `' guest-houses'' for the entertainment
of strangers of different degrees (X1 X2) comprise a large
common chamber or refectory in the centre, surrounded by
sleeping-apartments.  Each is provided with its own brewhouse
and bakehouse, and that for travellers of a superior order has
a kitchen and storeroom, with bedrooms for their servants and
stables for their horses.  There is also an ``hospitium'' for
strange monks, abutting on the north wall of the church (Y).

Beyond the cloister, at the extreme verge of the convent
area to the south, stands the `factory'' (Z), containing
workshops for shoemakers, saddlers (or shoemakers, sellarii),
cutlers and grinders, trencher-makers, tanners, curriers,
fullers, smiths and goldsmiths, with their dwellings in the
rear.  On this side we also find the farmbuildings, the large
granary and threshing-floor (a), mills (c), malthouse
(d). Facing the west are the stables (e), ox-sheds
(f), goatstables (gl, piggeries (h), sheep-folds (i),
together with the servants' and labourers' quarters (k).
At the south-east corner we find the hen and duck house, and
poultry-yard (m), and the dwelling of the keeper (n).
Hard by is the kitchen garden (o), the beds bearing the
names of the vegetables growing in them, onions, garlic,
celery, lettuces, poppy, carrots, cabbages, &c., eighteen in
all.  In the same way the physic garden presents the names
of the medicinal herbs, and the cemetery (p) those of
the trees, apple, pear, plum, quince, &c., planted there.

Canterbury Cathedral.

A curious bird's-eye view of Canterbury Cathedral and its
annexed conventual buildings, taken about 1165, is preserved
in the Great Psalter in the library of Trinity College,
Cambridge.  As elucidated by Professor Willis,1 it exhibits
the plan of a great Benedictine monastery in the 12th century,
and enables us to compare it with that of the 9th as seen at St
Gall.  We see in both the same general principles of arrangement,
which indeed belong to all Benedictine monasteries, enabling
us to determine with precision the disposition of the various
buildings, when little more than fragments of the walls
exist.  From some local reasons, however, the cloister and
monastic buildings are placed on the north, instead, as is far
more commonly the case, on the south of the church.  There is
also a separate chapter-house, which is wanting at St Gall.

The buildings at Canterbury, as at St Gall, form separate
groups.  The church forms the nucleus.  In immediate contact
with this, on the north side, lie the cloister and the
group of buildings devoted to the monastic life.  Outside of
these, to the west and east, are the ``halls and chambers
devoted to the exercise of hospitality, with which every
monastery was provided, for the purpose of receiving as
guests persons who visited it, whether clergy or laity,
travellers, pilgrims or paupers.'' To the north a large
open court divides the monastic from the menial buildings,
intentionally placed as remote as possible from the conventual
buildings proper, the stables, granaries, barn, bakehouse,
brewhouse, laundries, &c., inhabited by the lay servants of the
establishment.  At the greatest possible distance from the
church, beyond the precinct of the convent, is the eleemosynary
department.  The almonry for the relief of the poor,
with a great hall annexed, forms the paupers' hospitium.

The most important group of buildings is naturally that devoted
to monastic life.  This includes two Cloisters, the great
cloister surrounded by the buildings essentially connected with
the daily life of the monks,---the church to the south, the
refectory or frater-house here as always on the side opposite
to the church, and farthest removed from it, that no sound or
smell of eating might penetrate its sacred precincts, to the
east the dormitory, raised on a vaulted undercroft, and the
chapter-house adjacent, and the lodgings of the cellarer to the
west.  To this officer was committed the provision of the
monks' daily food, as well as that of the guests.  He was,
therefore, appropriately lodged in the immediate vicinity of
the refectory and kitchen, and close to the guest-hall.  A
passage under the dormitory leads eastwards to the smaller
or infirmary cloister, appropriated to the sick and infirm
monks.  Eastward of this cloister extend the hall and chapel of
the infirmary, resembling in form and arrangement the nave and
chancel of an aisled church.  Beneath the dormitory, looking
out into the green court or herbarium, lies the ``pisalis''
or ``calefactory,'' the common room of the monks.  At its
north-east corner access was given from the dormitory to the
necessarium, a portentous edifice in the form of a Norman
hall, 145 ft. long by 25 broad, containing fifty-five seats.  It
was, in common with all such offices in ancient monasteries,
constructed with the most careful regard to cleanliness and
health, a stream of water running through it from end to
end.  A second smaller dormitory runs from east to west for
the accommodation of the conventual officers, who were bound
to sleep in the dormitory.  Close to the refectory, but outside
the cloisters, are the domestic offices connected with it:
to the north, the kitchen, 47 ft. square, surmounted by a
lofty pyramidal roof, and the kitchen court; to the west, the
butteries, pantries, &c. The infirmary had a small kitchen of its
own.  Opposite the refectory door in the cloister are two
lavatories, an invariable adjunct to a monastic dining-hall,
at which the monks washed before and after taking food.

The buildings devoted to hospitality were divided into three
groups.  The prior's group ``entered at the south-east angle
of the green court, placed near the most sacred part of the
cathedral, as befitting the distinguished ecclesiastics or
nobility who were assigned to him.'' The cellarer's buildings
were near the west end of the nave, in which ordinary visitors
of the middle class were hospitably entertained.  The inferior
pilgrims and paupers were relegated to the north hall or almonry,
just within the gate, as far as possible from the other two.

Westminster Abbey.

Westminster Abbey is another example of a great Benedictine
abbey, identical in its general arrangements, so far as they
can be traced, with those described above.  The cloister and
, monastic buildings lie to the south side of the church.
Parallel to the nave, on the south side of the cloister,
was the refectory, with its lavatory at the door.  On the
eastern side we find the remains of the dormitory, raised
on a vaulted substructure and communicating with the south
transept.  The chapter-house opens out of the same alley of the
cloister.  The small cloister lles to the south-east of
the larger cloister, and still farther to the east we have
the remains of the infirmary with the table hall, the
refectory of those who were able to leave their chambers.  The
abbot's house formed a small courtyard at the west entrance,
close to the inner gateway.  Considerable portions of this
remain, including the abbot's parlour. celebrated as ``the
Jerusalem Chamber,'' his hall, now used for the Westminster
King's Scholars, and the kitchen and butteries beyond.

York.

St Mary's Abbey, York, of which the ground-plan is annexed,
exhibits the usual Benedictine arrangements.  The precincts
are surrounded by a strong fortified wall on three sides,
the river Ouse being sufficient protection on the fourth
side.  The entrance was by a strong gateway (U) to the
north.  Close to the entrance was a chapel, where is now
the church of St Olaf (W), in which the new-comers paid
their devotions immediately on their arrival.  Near the
gate to the south was the guest-hall or hospitium (T).
The buildings are completely ruined, but enough remains to
enable us to identify the grand cruciform church (A), the
cloister-court with the chapterhouse (B), the refectory (I),
the kitchen-court with its offices (K, O, O) and the other
principal apartments.  The infirmary has perished completely.

Some Benedictine houses display exceptional arrangements,
dependent upon local circumstances, e.g. the dormitory of
Worcester runs from east to west, from the west walk of the
cloister, and that of Durham is built over the west, instead of

                             FIG. 4

 St Mary's Abbey, York (Benedictine).--Churton's Monnastic Ruins.
 A. Church.                        O. Offices.
 B. Chapter-house.                 P. Cellars.
 C. Vestibule to ditto.            Q. Uncertain.
 E. Library or scriptorium.        R. Passage to abbot's house.
 F. Calefactory.                   S. Passage to common house.
 G. Necessary.                     T. Hospitium.
 H. Parlour.                       U. Great gate.
 I. Refectory.                     V. Porter's lodge.
 K. Great kitchen and court.       W. Church of St Olaf.
 L. Cellarer's office.             X. Tower.
 M. Cellars.                       Y. Entrance from Bootham.
 N. Passage to cloister.


as usual, over the east walk; but, as a general rule, the arrangements
deduced from the examples described may be regarded as invariable.

The history of monasticism is one of alternate periods of
decay and revival.  With growth in popular esteem came increase
in material wealth, leading to luxury and worldliness.  The
first religious ardour cooled, the strictness of the rule was
relaxed, until by the 10th century the decay of discipline
was so complete in France that the monks are said to have
been frequently unacquainted with the rule of St Benedict,
and even ignorant that they were bound by any rule at
all.  The reformation of abuses generally took the form of
the establishment of new monastic orders, with new and more
stringent rules, requiring a modification of the architectural
arrangements.  One of the earliest of these reformed orders
was the Cluniac. This order took its name from,the little
village of Cluny, 12 miles N.W. of Macon, near which, about
A.D. 909, a reformed Benedictine abbey was founded by William,
duke of Aquitaine and count of Auvergne, under Berno, abbot of
Beaume.  He was succeeded by Odo, who is often regarded as
the founder of the order.  The fame of Cluny spread far and
wide.  Its rigid rule was adopted by a vast number of the
old Benedictine abbeys, who placed themselves in affiliation
to the mother society, while new foundations sprang up in
large numbers, all owing allegiance to the ``archabbot,''
established at Cluny.  By the end of the 12th century the
number of monasteries affiliated to Cluny in the various
countries of western Europe amounted to 2000.  The monastic
establishment of Cluny was one of the most extensive
and magnificent in France.  We may form some idea of its
enormous dimensions from the fact recorded, that when, A.D.
1245, Pope Innocent IV., accompanied by twelve cardinals,

         FIG. 5--Abbey of Cluny, from


 A. Gateway.        F. Tomb of St Hugh.  M. Bakehouse.
 B. Narthex.        G. Nave.             N. Abbey buildings.
 C. Choir.          H. Cloister.         O. Garden.
 D. High-altar.     K. Abbot's house.    P. Refectory.
 E. Retro-altar.    L. Guest-house.


a patriarch, three archbishops, the two generals of the
Carthusians and Cistercians, the king (St Louis), and three
of his sons, the queen mother, Baldwin, count of Flanders
and emperor of Constantinople, the duke of Burgundy, and
six lords, visited the abbey, the whole party, with their
attendants, were lodged withn the monastery without disarranging
the monks, 400 in number.  Nearly the whole of the abbey
buildings, including the magnificent church, were swept away
at the close of the 18th century.  When the annexed ground-plan
was taken, shortly before its destruction, nearly all the
monastery, with the exception of the church, had been rebuilt.

The church, the ground-plan of which bears a remarkable
resemblance to that of Lincoln Cathedral, was of vast
dimensions.  It was 656 ft. high.  The nave (G) had double
vaulted aisles on either side.  Like Lincoln, it had an
eastern as well as a western transept, each furnished with
apsidal chapels to the east.  The western transept was 213
ft. long, and the eastern 123 ft.  The choir terminated in
a semicircular apse (F), surrounded by five chapels, also
semicircular.  The western entrance was approached by an
ante-church, or narthex (B), itself an aisled church of
no mean dimensions, flanked by two towers, rising from a
stately flight of steps bearing a large stone cross.  To the
south of the church lay the cloister-court (H), of immense
size, placed much farther to the west than is usually the
case.  On the south side of the cloister stood the refectory
(P), an immense building, 100 ft. long and 60 ft. wide,
accommodating six longitudinal and three transverse rows of
tables.  It was adorned with the portraits of the chief
benefactors of the abbey, and with Scriptural subjects.  The
end wall displayed the Last Judgment.  We are unhappily unable
to identify any other of the principal buildings (N). The
abbot's residence (K), still partly standing, adjoined the
entrance-gate.  The guest-house (L) was close by.  The bakehouse
(M), also remaining, is a detached building of immense size.

English Cluniac

The first English house of the Cluniac order was that of
Lewes, founded by the earl of Warren, c. A.D. 1077.  Of
this only a few fragments of the domestic buildings exist.
The best preserved Cluniac houses in England are Castle Acre,
Norfolk, and Wenlock, Shropshire.  Ground-plans of both are
given in Britton's Architectural Antiquities. They show
several departures from the Benedictine arrangement.  In
each the prior's house is remarkably perfect.  All Cluniac
houses in England were French colonies, governed by priors
of that nation.  They did not secure their independence nor
become ``abbeys'' till the reign of Henry VI. The Cluniac
revival, with all its brilliancy, was but short-lived.
The celebrity of this, as of other orders, worked its moral
ruin.  With their growth in wealth and dignity the Cluniac
foundations became as worldly in life and as relaxed in
discipline as their predecessors, and a fresh reform was needed.

Cistercian

The next great monastic revival, the Cistercian, arising in
the last years of the 11th century, had a wider diffusion,
and a longer and more honourable existence.  Owing its real
origin, as a distinct foundation of reformed Benedictines, in
the year 1098, to Stephen Harding (a native of Dorsetshire,
educated in the monastery of Sherborne), and deriving its
name from Citeaux (Cistercium), a desolate and almost
inaccessible forest solitude, on the borders of Champagne and
Burgundy, the rapid growth and wide celebrity of the order
are undoubtedly to be attributed to the enthusiastic piety
of St Bernard, abbot of the first of the monastic colonies,
subsequently sent forth in such quick succession by the
first Cistercian houses, the far-famed abbey of Clairvaux
(de Clara Valle), A.D. 1116.  The rigid self-abnegation,
which was the ruling principle of this reformed congregation
of the Benedictine order, extended itself to the churches and
other buildings erected by them.  The characteristic of the
Cistercian abbeys was the extremest simplicity and a studied
plainness.  Only one tower--a central one --was permitted, and
that was to be very low.  Unnecessary pinnacles and turrets
were prohibited.  The triforium was omitted.  The windows
were to be plain and undivided, and it was forbidden to
decorate them with stained glass.  All needless ornament was
proscribed.  The crosses must be of wood; the candlesticks of
iron.  The renunciation of the world was to be evidenced
in all that met the eye.  The same spirit manifested itself
in the choice of the sites of their monasteries.  The more
dismal, the more savage, the more hopeless a spot appeared,
the more did it please their rigid mood.  But they came
not merely as ascetics, but as improvers.  The Cistercian
monasteries are, as a rule, found placed in deep well-watered
valleys.  They always stand on the border of a stream; not
rarely, as at Fountains, the buildings extend over it.  These
valleys, now so rich and productive, wore a very different
aspect when the brethren first chose them as the place of their
retirement.  Wide swamps, deep morasses, tangled thickets,
wild impassable forests, were their prevailing features.  The
``bright valley,'' Clara Vallis of St Bernard, was known
as the ``valley of Wormwood,'' infamous as a den of robbers.
``It was a savage dreary solitude, so utterly barren that
at first Bernard and his companions were reduced to live on
beech leaves.''-(Milman's Lat. Christ. vol. iii. p. 335.)

Clairvaux

All Cistercian monasteries, unless the circumstances of the
locality forbade it, were arranged according to one plan.  The
general arrangement and distribution of the various
buildings, which went to make up one of these vast
establishments, may be gathered from that of St Bernard's own
abbey of Clairvaux, which is here given.  It will be observed
that the abbey precincts are surrounded by a strong wall,
furnished at intervals with watch-towers and other defensive
works.  The wall is nearly encircled by a stream of water,
artificially diverted from the small rivulets which flow
through the precincts, furnishing the establishment with
an abundant supply in every part, for the litigation of
the gardens and orchards, the sanitary requirements of the
brotherhood and for the use of the offices and workshops.

The precincts are divided across the centre by a wall,
running from N. to S., into an outer and inner ward,--the
former containing the menial, the latter the monastic
buildings.  The precincts are entered by a gateway (P), at
the extreme western extremity, giving admission to the lower
ward.  Here the barns, granaries, stables, shambles, workshops
and workmen,s lodgings were placed, without any regard to
symmetry, convenience being the only consideration.  Advancing
eastwards, we have before us the wall separating the

    FIG. 6.--.Clairvaux, No. 1 (Cistercian), General


  A. Cloisters.         I. Wine-press and       O. Public presse.
  B. Ovens, and corn          hay-chamber       P. Gateway.
       oil-mills        K. Parlour              R. Remains of old monastery
  C. St Bernard's cell. L. Workshops and.
  D. Chief entrance.         workmen's lodgings S. Oratory.
  E. Tanks for fish.                            V. Tile-works.
  F. Guest-house.       M. Slaughter-house.     X. Tile-kiln.
  G. Abbot's house.     N. Barns and stables.   V. Water-courses.
  H. Stables.


outer and inner ward, and the gatehouse (D) affording communication
between the two.  On passing through the gateway, the outer
court of the inner ward was entered, with the western facade
of the monastic church in front.  Immediately on the right
of entrance was the abbot's house (G), in close proximity to
the guest-house (F). On the other side of the court were the
stables, for the accommodation of the horses of the guests
and their attendants (H). The church occupied a central
position.  To the south was the great cloister (A),
surrounded by the chief monastic buildings, and farther to
the east the smaller cloister, opening out of which were
the infirmary, novices' lodgings and quarters for the aged
monks.  Still farther to the east, divided from the monastic
buildings by a wall, were the vegetable gardens and orchards,
and tank for fish.  The large fish-ponds, an indispensable
adjunct to any ecclesiastical foundation, on the formation
of which the monks lavished extreme care and pains, and
which often remain as almost the only visible traces of these
vast establishments, were placed outside the abbey walls.

Plan No. 2 furninshes the ichnography of the distinctly
monastic buildings on a larger scale.  The usually unvarying
arrangement of the Cistercian houses allows us to accept
this as a type of the monasteries of this order.  The church
(A) is the chief feature.  It consists of a vast nave of
eleven bays, entered by a narthex, with a transept and short
apsidal choir. (It may be remarked that the eastern limb in
all unaltered Cistercian churches is remarkably short, and
usually square.) To the east of each limb of the transept
are two square chapels, divided according to Cistercian
rule by solid walls.  Nine radiating chapels, similarly
divided, surround the apse.  The stalls of the monks,
forming the ritual choir, occupy the four eastern bays of the
nave.  There was a second range of stalls in the extreme
western bays of the nave for the fratres conversi, or lay
brothers.  To the south of the church, so as to secure as
much sun as possible, the cloister was invariably placed,
except when local reasons forbade it.  Round the cloister
(B) were ranged the buildings connected with the monks' daily
life.  The chapter-house (C) always opened out of the east
walk of the cloister in a line with the south transept.

      FIG. 7.--Clairvaux, No. 2 (Cistercian), Monastic


  A. Church.            L. Lodgings of novices.   S. Cellars and storehouses.
  B. Cloister.
  C. Chapter-house.     M. Old guest-house.       T. Water-course.
  D. Monks' parlour.    N. Old abbot's lodgings.  U. Saw-mill and oil mill
  E. Calefactory.
  F. Kitchen and court. O. Cloister of            V. Currier's shop.
  G. Refectory.            supernumerary monks.
  H. Cemetery.                                    X. Sacristy.
  I. Little cloister.   P. Abbot's hall.          Y. Little library.
  K. Infirmary.         Q. Cell of St Bernard.    Z. Undercroft of dormitory.
                        R. Stables.


In Cistercian houses this was quadrangular, and was divided
by pillars and arches into two or three aisles.  Between
it and the transept we find the sacristy (X), and a small
book-room (Y) armariolum, where the brothers deposited the
volumes borrowed from the library.  On the other side of the
chapter-house, to the south, is a passage (D) communicating
with the courts and buildings beyond.  This was sometimes
known as the parlour, colloquii locus, the monks having the
privilege of conversation here.  Here also, when iscipline
became relaxed, traders, who had the liberty of admission,
were allowed to display their goods.  Beyond this we often
find the calefactorium or day-room--an apartment warmed
by flues beneath the pavement, where the brethren, half
frozen during the night offices, betook themselves after
the conclusion of lauds, to gain a little warmth, grease
their sandals and get themselves ready for the work of the
day.  In the plan before us this apartment (E) opens from the
south cloister walk, adjoining the refectory.  The place usually
assigned to it is occupied by the vaulted substructure of the
dormitory (Z). The dormitory, as a rule, was placed on the
east side of the cloister, running over the calethetory and
chapter-house, and joined the south transept, where a flight
of steps admitted the brethren into the church for nocturnal
services.  Opening out of the dormitory was always the
necessarium, planned with the greatest regard to health and
cleanliness, a water-course invariably running from end to
end.  The refectory opens out of the south cloister at G.
The position of the refectory is usually a marked point of
difference between Benedictine and Cistercian abbeys.  In the
former, as at Canterbury, the refectory ran east and west
parallel to the nave of the church, on the side of the cloister
farthest removed from it.  In the Cistercian monasturies, to
keep the noise and smell of dinner still farther away from
the sacred building, the refectory was built north and south,
at right angles to the axis of the church.  It was often
divided, sometimes into two, sometimes, as here, into three
aisles.  Outside the refectory door, in the cloister,
was the lavatory, where the monks washed their hands at
dinner-time.  The buildings belonging to the material life of
the monks lay near the refectory, as far as possible from the
church, to the S.W. With a distinct entrance from the outer
court was the kitchen court (F), with its buttery, scullery
and larder, and the important adjunct of a stream of running
water.  Farther to the west, projecting beyond the line of
the west front of the church, were vast vaulted apartments
(SS), serving as cellars and storehouses, above which was
the dormitory of the conversi. Detached from these, and
separated entirely from the monastic buildings, were various
workshops, which convenience repuired to be banished to
the outer precincts, a saw-mill and oil-mill (UU) turned
by water, and a currier's shop (V), where the sandals
and leathern girdles of the monks were made and repaired.

Returning to the cloister, a vaulted passage admitted to the small
cloister (l), opening from the north side of which were eight
small cells, assigned to the scribes employed in copying works
for the library, which was placed in the upper story, accessible
by a turret staircase.  To the south of the small cloister
a long hall will be noticed.  This was a lecture-hall, or
rather a hall for the religious disputations customary among the
Cistercians.  From this cloister opened the infirmary (K),
with its hall, chapel, cells, blood-letting house and other
dependencies.  At the eastern verge of the vast group of buildings
we find the novices' lodgings (L), with a third cloister
near the novices' quarters and the original guest-house (M).
Detached from the great mass of the monastic edifices was the
original abbot's house (N), with its dining-hall (P). Closely
adjoining to this, so that the eye of the father of the whole
establishment should be constantly over those who stood the
most in need of his watchful care,--those who were training
for the monastic life, and those who had worn themselves
out in its duties,--was a fourth cloister (O), with annexed
buildings, devoted to the aged and infirm members of the
establishment.  The cemetery, the last resting-place of the
brethren, lay to the north side of the nave of the church (H).

It will be seen from the above account that the arrangement of
a Cistercian monastery was in accordance with a clearly defined
system, and admirably adapted to its purpose.  The base court
nearest to the outer wall contained the buildings belonging to
the functions of the body as agriculturists and employers of
labour.  Advancing into the inner court, the buildings`devoted
to hospitality are found close to the entrance; while those
connected with the supply of the material wants of the brethren,
--the kitchen, cellars, &c.,--form a court of themselves
outside the cloister and quite detached from the church.
The church refectory, dormitory and other buildings belonging
to the professional life of the brethren surround the great
cloister.  The small cloister beyond, with its scribes' cells,
library, hall for disputations, &c., is the centre of the
literary life of the community.  The requirements of sickness
and old age are carefully provided for in the infirmary
cloister and that for the aged and infirm members of the
establishment.  The same group contains the quarters of the novices.

This stereotyped arrangement is further shown by the
illustration of the mother establishment of Citeaux.

Citeaux.

A cross (A), planted on the high road, directs travellers to
the gate of the monastery. reached by an avenue of trees.  On
one side of the gate-house (B) is a long building (C), probably
the almonry, with a dormitory above for the lower class of
guests.  On the other side is a chapel (D). As soon as the
porter heard a stranger knock at the gate, he rose, saying,
Deo gratias, the opportunity for the exercise of hospitality
being regarded as a cause for thankfulness.  On opening the
door he welcomed the new arrival with a blessing --Benedicite.
He fell on his knees before him, and then went to inform the
abbot.  However important the abbot's occupations might
be, he at once hastened to receive him whom heaven had
sent.  He also threw himself at his guest's feet, and
conducted him to the chapel (D) purposely built close to the
gate.  After a short prayer, the abbot committed the guest
to the care of the brother hospitaller, whose duty it was
to provide for his wants and conduct the beast on which he
might be riding to the stable (F), built adjacent to the inner
gatehouse (E). This inner gate conducted into the base court
(T), round which were placed the barns, stables, cow-sheds, &c.
On the eastern side stood the dormitory of the lay brothers,
fratres conversi (G), detached from the cloister, with
cellars and storehouses below.  At H, also outside the monastic
buildings proper, was the abbot's house, and annexed to it the
guest-house.  For these buildings there was a separate door
of entrance into the church (S). The large cloister, with its
surrounding arcades, is seen at V. On the south end projects
the refectory (K), with its kitchen at I, accessible from
the base court.  The long gabled building on the east side of
the cloister contained on the ground floor the chapter-house
and calefactory, with the monks' dormitory above (M),
communicating with the south transept of the church.  At L
was the staircase to the dormitory.  The small cloister is at
W, where were the carols or cells of the scribes, with the
library (P) over, reached by a turret staircase.  At R we see
a portion of the infirmary.  The whole precinct is surrounded
by a strong buttressed wall (XXX), pierced with arches,

            FIG. 8.---Bird's-eye view of


 A. Cross.            H. Abbot's house.            R. Infirmary.
 B. Gate-house.       I. Kitchen.                  S. Door to the church
 C. Almonry.          K. Refectory.                   for the lay brothers.
 D. Chapel.           L. Staircase to dormitory.
 E. Inner gate-house.                              T. Base court.
 F. Stable.           M. Dormitory.                V. Great cloister.
 G. Dormitory of lay  N. Church.                   W. Small cloister.
        brethren.     P. Library.                  X. Boundary wall.


through which streams of water are introduced.  It will
be noticed that the choir of the church is short, and has
a square end instead of the usual apse.  The tower, in
accordance with the Cistercian rule, is very low.  The windows
throughout accord with the studied simplicity of the order.

Kirkstall Abbey.

The English Cistercian houses, of which there are such extensive
and beautiful remains at Fountains, Rievaulx, Kirkstall,
Tintern, Netley, &c., were mainly arranged after the same
plan, with slight local variations.  As an example, we give
the groundplan of Kirkstall Abbey. which is one of the best
preserved.  The church here is of the Cistercian type, with
a short chancel of two squares, and transepts with three
eastward chapels to each, divided by solid walls (2 2 2).
The whole is of the most studied plainness.  The windows
are unornamented, and the nave has no triforium.  The
cloister to the south (4) occupies the whole length of the
nave.  On the east side stands the two-aisled chapter-house
(5), between which and the south transept is a small
sacristy (3), and on the other side two small apartments,
one of which was probably the parlour (6). Beyond this
stretches southward the calefactory or day-room of the monks
(14).  Above this whole range of building runs the monks'
dormitory, opening by stairs into the south transept of the
church.  At the other end were the necessaries.  On thc south
side of the cloister we have the remains of the old refectory
(11), running, as in Benedictine houses, from east to west,
and the new refectory (12), which, with the increase of the
inmates of the house, superseded it, stretching, as is usual
in Cistercian houses, from north to south.  Adjacent to this
apartment are the remains of the kitchen, pantry and buttery.
The arches of the lavatory are to be seen near the refectory
entrance.  The western side of the cloister is, as usual,
occupied by vaulted cellars, supporting on the upper story
the dormitory of the lay brothers (8). Extending from the

      FIG. 9 Kirkstall Abbey, Yorkshire


 1. Church.                         10. Common room.
 2. Chapels.                        11. Old refectory.
 3. Sacristy.                       12. New refectory.
 4. Cloister.                       13. Kitchen court.
 5. Chapter-house.                  14. Calefactory or day-room.
 6. Parlour.                        15. Kitchen and offices.
 7. Punishment cell (?).            16-19. Uncertain; perhaps offices
 8. Cellars, with dormitories for            connected with the infirmary.
      conversi over.
 9. Guest-house.                    20. Infirmary or abbot's house.


south-east angle of the main group of buildings are the
walls and foundations of a secondary group of considerable
extent.  These have been identified either with the hospitium
or with the abbot's house, but they occupy the position in
which the infirmary is more usually found.  The hall was
a very spacious apartment, measuring 83 ft. in length by
48 ft. 9 in. in breadth, and was divided by two rows of
columns.  The fish-ponds lay between the monastery and
the river to the south.  The abbey mill was situated
about 80 yards to the north-west.  The millpool may be
distinctly traced, together with the gowt or mill stream.

Fountains Abbey.

Fountains Abbey, first founded A.D. 1132, is one of the
largest and best preserved Cistercian houses in England.
But the earlier buildings received considerable additions
and alterations in the later period of the order, causing
deviations from the strict Cistercian type.  The church
stands a short distance to the north of the river Skell, the
buildings of the abbey stretching down to and even across the
stream.  We have the cloister (H) to the south, with the
three-aisled chapter-house (I) and calefactory (L) opening from
its eastern walk, and the refectory (S), with the kitchen (Q)
and buttery (T) attached, at right angles to its southern walk.

     FIG. 10.--Ground-plan of Fountains Abbey,


 A. Nave of the church.     N. Cellar.              Z. Gate-house.
 B. Transept.               O. Brewhouse.              ABBOT'S HOUSE.
 C. Chapels.                P. Prisons.                 1. Passage
 D. Tower.                  Q. Kitchen.                 2. Great hall.
 E. Sacristy.               R. Offices.                 3. Refectory.
 F. Choir.                  S. Refectory.               4. Refectory.
 G. Chapel of nine alters.  T. Buttery.                 5. Storehouse.
 H. Cloister.               U. Cellars and storehouses. 6. Chapel.
 I. Chapter-house.          V. Necessary.               7. Kitchen.
 K. Base court.             W. Infirmary (?).           8. Ashpit.
 L. Calefactory.            X. Guest-houses.            9. Yard.
 M. Water-course.           Y. Mill bridge.            10. Kitchen tank.


Parallel with the western walk is an immense vaulted substructure
(U), incorrectly styled the cloisters, serving as cellars and
store-rooms, and supporting the dormitory of the conversi
above.  This building extended across the river.  At its S.W.
corner were the necessaries (V), also built, as usual, above
the swiftly flowing stream.  The monks' dormitory was in its
usual position above the chapter-house, to the south of the
transept.  As peculiarities of arrangement may be noticed
the position of the kitchen (Q), between the refectory and
calefactory, and of the infirmary (W) (unless there is some
error in its designation) above the river to the west, adjoining
the guest-houses (XX).  We may also call attention to the
greatly lengthened choir, commenced by Abbot John of York,
1203-1211, and carried on by his successor, terminating, like
Durham Cathedral, in an eastern transept, the work of Abbot
John of Kent, 1220-1247, and to the tower (D), added not long
before the dissolution by Abbot Huby, 1494-1526, in a very
unusual position at the northern end of the north transept.
The abbot's house, the largest and most remarkable example of
this class of buildings in the kingdom, stands south to the
east of the church and cloister, from which it is divided by
the kitchen court (R), surrounded by the ordinary domestic
offices.  A considerable portion of this house was erected on
arches over the Skell.  The size and character of this house,
probably, at the time of its erection, the most spacious
house of a subject in the kingdom, not a castle, bespeaks
the wide departure of the Cistercian order from the stern
simplicity of the original foundation.  The hall (2) was one
of the most spacious and magnificent apartments in medieval
times, measuring 170 ft. by 70 ft.  Like the hall in the
castle at Winchester, and Westminster Hall, as originally
built, it was divided by 18 pillars and arches, with 3
aisles.  Among other apartments, for the designation of which
we must refer to the ground-plan, was a domestic oratory or
chapel, 46 1/2 ft. by 23 ft. and a kitchen (7), 50 ft. by 38
ft.  The whole arrangements and character of the building
bespeak the rich and powerful feudal lord, not the humble
father of a body of hard-working brethren, bound by vows to a
life of poverty and self-denying toil.  In the words of Dean
Milman, ``the superior, once a man bowed to the earth with
humility, care-worn, pale, emaciated, with a coarse habit
bound with a cord, with naked feet, had become an abbot
on his curvetting palfrey, in rich attire, with his silver
cross before him, travelling to take his place amid the
lordliest of the realm.'' --(Lat. Christ. vol. iii. p. 330.)

Austin Canons.

The buildings of the Austin canons or Black canons (so
called from the colour of their habit) present few distinctive
peculiarities.  This order had its first seat in England at
Colchester, where a house for Austin canons was founded about
A.D. 1105, and it very soon spread widely.  As an order
of regular clergy, holding a middle position between monks
and secular canons, almost resembling a community of parish
priests living under rule, they adopted naves of great length
to accommodate large congregations.  The choir is usually
long, and is sometimes, as at Llanthony and Christ Church
(Twynham), shut off from the aisles, or, as at Bolton, Kirkham,
&c., is destitute of aisles altogether.  The nave in the northern
houses, not unfrequently, had only a north aisle, as at Bolton,
Brinkburn and Lanercost.  The arrangement of the monastic
buildings followed the ordinary type.  The prior's lodge was
almost invariably attached to the S.W. angle of the nave.

Bristol Cathedral.

The annexed plan of the Abbey of St Augustine's at Bristol,
now the cathedral church of that city, shows the arrangement
of the buildings, which departs very little from the
ordinary Benedictine type.  The Austin canons' house at
Thornton, in Lincolnshire, is remarkable for the size
and magnificence of its gate-house, the upper floors of
which formed the guest-house of the establishment, and for
possessing an octagonal chapter-house of Decorated date.

Premonstratensians.

The Premonstratensian regular canons, or White canons, had
as many as 35 houses in England, of which the most perfect
remaining are those of Easby.  Yorkshire, and Bayham, Kent.
The head house of the order in England was Welbeck.  This order
was a reformed branch of the Austin canons, founded, A.D.
1119, by Norbert (born at Xanten, on the Lower Rhine, c.
1080) at Premontre, a secluded marshy valley in the forest
of Coucy in the diocese of Laon.  The order spread widely.
Even in the founder's lifetime it possessed houses in Syria and
Palestine.  It long maintained its rigid austerity, till in
the course of years wealth impaired its discipline, and its
members sank into indolence and luxury.  The Premonstratensians
were brought to England shortly after A.D. 1140, and were
first settled at Newhouse, in Lincolnshire, near the Humber.
The ground-plan of Easby Abbey, owing to its situation on the
edge of the steeply sloping banks of a river, is singularly
irregular.  The cloister is duly placed on the south side of the
church, and the chief buildings occupy their usual positions
round it.  But the cloister garth, as at Chichester, is not
rectangular, and all the surrounding buildings are thus made
to sprawl in a very awkward fashion.  The church follows
the plan adopted by the Austin canons in their northern
abbeys, and has only one aisle to the nave--that to the
north; while the choir is long, narrow and aisleless.  Each
transept has an aisle to the east, forming three chapels.

The church at Bayham was destitute of aisles either to nave or
choir.  The latter terminated in a three-sided apse.  This church
is remarkable for its exceeding narrowness in proportion to its
length.  Extending in longitudinal dimensions 257 ft., it is

    FIG. 11.--St Augustine's Abbey, Bristol (Bristol


 A. Church.            H. Kitchen.         S. Friars' lodging.
 B. Great cloister.    I. Kitchen court.   T. King's hall.
 C. Little cloister.   K. Cellars.         V. Guest-house.
 D. Chapter-house.     L. Abbot's hall.    W. Abbey gateway.
 E. Calefactory.       P. Abbot's gateway. X. Barns, stables, &c
 F. Refectory.         R. Infirmary.       Y. Lavatory.
 G. Parlour.


not more than 25 ft. broad.  Stern Premonstratensian canons
wanted no congregations, and cared for no possessions;
therefore they built their church like a long room.

Carthusians.

The Carthusian order, on its establishment by St Bruno,
about A.D. 1084, developed a greatly modified form and
arrangement of a monastic institution.  The principle of this
order, which combined the coenobitic with the solitary life,
demanded the erection of buildings on a novel plan.  This
plan, which was first adopted by St Bruno and his twelve
companions at the original institution at Chartreux, near
Grenoble, was maintained in all the Carthusian establishments
throughout Europe, even after the ascetic severity of the order
had been to some extent relaxed, and the primitive simplicity
of their buildings had been exchanged for the magnificence
of decoration which characterizes such foundations as the
Certosas of Pavia and Florence.  According to the rule of
St Bruno, all the members of a Carthusian brotherhood lived
in the most absolute solitude and silence.  Each occupied a
small detached cottage, standing by itself in a small garden
surrounded by high walls and connected by a common corridor or
cloister.  In these cottages or cells a Carthusian monk
passed his time in the strictest asceticism, only leaving
his solitary dwelling to attend the services of the Church,
except on certain days when the brotherhood assembled in the
refectory.  The peculiarity of the arrangements of a Carthusian
monastery, or charter-house, as it was called in England,
from a corruption of the French chartreux, is exhibited
in the plan of that of Clermont, from Viollet-le-Duc.

Clermont.

The whole establishment is surrounded hy a wall, furnished
at intervals with watch towers (R) . The enclosure is divided
into two courts, of which the eastern court, surrounded by a
cloister, from from which the cottages of the monks (I) open,
is musch the larger.  The two courts are divided by the main
buildings of the monastery, including the church, the sanctuary
(A), divided from B, the monks' choir, by a screen with two
altars, the smaller cloister to the south (S) surrounded by
the chapter-house (E), the refectory (X)---these buildings
occupying their normal position--and the chapel of Pontgibaud
(K). The kitchen with its offices (V) lies behind the
relectory, accessible ftom the outer court without entering the
cloister.  To the north of the church, beyond the sacristy
(L), and the side chapels (M), we find the cell of the sub-prior
(a), with its garden.  The lodgings of the prior (G) occupy
the centre of the outer court, immediately in front of the
west door of the church, and face the gateway of the convent
(O). A small raised court with a fountain (C) is before
it.  This outer court also contains the guest-chambers (P),
the stables and lodgings of the lay brothers (N), the barns
and granaries (Q), the dovecot (H) and the bakehouse (T).
At Z is the prison.  In this outer court, in all the earlier
foundations, as at Witham, there was a smaller church in
addition to the larger church of the monks.) The outer and
inner courts are connected by a long passage (F), wide enough
to admit a cart laden with wood to supply the cells of the
brethren with fuel.  The number of cells surrounding the great

                                                A. Church.
                                                B. Monks' choir.
                                                C. Prior's garden.
                                                D. Great cloister.
                                                E. Chapter-house.
                                                F. Passage.
                                                G. Prior's lodgings.
                                                H. Dovecot.
                                                I. Cells.
                                                K. Chapel of Pontgibaud.
                                                L. Sacristy.
                                                M. Chapel.
                                                N. Stables.
                                                O. Gateway.
                                                P. Guest-chambers.
                                                Q. Barns and granaries.
                                                R. Watch-tower.
                                                S. Little cloister.
                                                T. Bakehouse.
                                                V. Kitchen.
                                                X. Refectory.
                                                Y. Cemetery.
                                                Z. Prison.
                                                a. Cell of subprior
                                                b. Garden of do.
          FIG. 12.--Carthusian monastery of Clermont.

cloister is 18. They are all arranged on a uniform plan.
Each little dwelling contains three rooms: a sitting-room
(C), warmed by a stove in winter; a sleeping-room (D),
furnished with a bed, a table, a bench, and a bookcase; and
a closet (E). Between the cell and the cloister gallery (A)
is a passage or corridor (B), cutting off the inmate of the
cell from all sound or movement which might interrupt his
meditations.  The superior had free access to this corridor, and
through open niches was able to inspect the garden without being
seen.  At I is the hatch or turn-table, in which the daily
allowance of food was deposited by a brother appointed for that
purpose, affording no view either inwards or outwards.  H is the
garden, cultivated by the occupant of the cell.  At K is the
wood-house.  F is a covered walk, with the necessary at the end.


The above arrangements are found with scarcely any variation
in all the charter-houses of western Europe.  The Yorkshire
Charter-house of Mount Grace, founded by Thomas Holland, the
young duke of Surrey, nephew of Richard II. and marshal of
England, during the revival of the popularity of the order,
about A.D. 1397, is the most perfect and best preserved English
example.  It is characterized by all the simplicity of the
order.  The church is a modest building, long, narrow and
aisleless.  Within the wall of enclosure are two courts.
The smaller of the two, the south, presents the usual
arrangement of church, refectory, &c., opening out of a
cloister.  The buildings are plain and solid.  The northern
court contains the cells, 14 in number.  It is surrotmded by a
double stone wall, the two walls being about 30 ft. or 40 ft.
apart.  Between these, each in its own garden, stand the cells;
low-built two-storied cottages, of two or three rooms on the
ground-floor, lighted by a larger and a smaller window to the
side, and provided with a doorway to the court, and one at the
back, opposite to one in the outer wall, through which the
monk may have conveyed the sweepings of his cell and the refuse
of his garden to the ``eremus'' beyond.  By the side of the
door to the court is a little hatch through which the daily
pittance of food was supplied, so contrived by turning at an
angle in the wall that no one could either look in or look
out.  A very perfect example of this hatch---an arrangement
belonging to all Carthusian houses--exists at Miraflores, near
Burgos, which remains nearly as it was completed in 1480.

                                                A. Cloister gallery.
                                                B. Corridor.
                                                C. Living-room.
                                                D. Sleeping-room.
                                                E. Closets.
                                                F. Covered walk.
                                                G. Necessary.
                                                H. Garden.
                                                I. Hatch.
                                                K. Wood-house.
             FIG. 13--Carthusian cell, Clermont.

There were only nine Carthusian houses in England.  The
earliest was that at Witham in Somersetshire, founded
by Henry II., by whom the order was first brought into
England.  The wealthiest and most magnificent was that of
Sheen or Richmond in Surrey, founded by Henry V. about A.D.
1414.  The, dimensions of the buildings at Sheen are stated
to have been remarkably large.  The great court measured
300 ft. by 250 ft.; the cloisters were a square of 500 ft.;
the hall was 110 ft. in length by 60 ft. in breadth.  The
most celebrated historically is the Charter house of London,
founded by Sir Walter Manny A.D. 1371, the name of which
is preserved by the famous public school established on the
site by Thomas Sutton A.D. 1611, now removed to Godalming.

Mendicant Friars.

An article on monastic arrangements would be incomplete without
some account of the convents of the Mendicant or Preaching
Friars, including the Black Friars or Dominicans, the Grey
or Franciscans, the White or Carmelites, the Eremite or
Austin, Friars.  These orders arose at the beginning of the
13th century, when the Benedictines, together with their
various reformed branches, had terminated their active
mission, and Christian Europe was ready for a new religious
revival.  Planting themselves, as a rule, in large towns,
and by preference in the poorest and most densely populated
districts, the Preaching Friars were obliged to adapt their
buildings to the requirements of the site.  Regularity of
arrangement, therefore, was not possible, even if they had
studied it.  Their churches, built for the reception of
large congregations of hearers rather than worshippers, form
a class by themselves, totally unlike those of the elder
orders in ground-plan and character.  They were usually long
parallelograms unbroken by transepts.  The nave very usually
consisted of two equal bodies, one containing the stalls
of the brotherhood, the other left entirely free for the
congregation.  The constructional choir is often wanting,
the whole church forming one uninterrupted structure, with
a continuous range of windows.  The east end was usually
square, but the Friars Church at Winchelsea had a polygonal
apse.  We not unfrequently find a single transept, sometimes of
great size, rivalling or exceeding the nave.  This arrangement
is frequent in Ireland, where the numerous small friaries
afford admirable exemplifications of these peculiarities of
ground-plan.  The friars' churches were at first destitute of
towers; but in the 14th and 15th centuries, tall, slender towers
were commonly inserted between the nave and the choir.  The
Grey Friars at Lynn, where the tower is hexagonal, is a good
example.  The arrangement of the monastic buildings is equally
peculiar and characteristic.  We miss entirely the regularity
of the buildings of the earlier orders.  At the Jacobins at
Paris, a cloister lay to the north of the long narrow church
of two parallel aisles, while the refectory--a room of immense
length, quite detached from the cloister--stretched across
the area before the west front of the church.  At Toulouse the
nave also has two parallel aisles, but the choir is apsidal,
with radiating chapel.  The refectory stretches northwards at
right angles to the cloister, which lies to the north of the
church, having the chapter-house and sacristy on the east.

Norwich.  Gloucester.

As examples of English friaries, the Dominican house at
Norwich, and those of the Dominicans and Franciscans at
Gloucester, may be mentioned.  The church of the Black
Friars of Norwich departs from the original type in the
nave (now St Andrew's Hall), in having regular aisles.  In
this it resembles the earlier examples of the Grey Friars at
Reading.  The choir is long and aisleless; an hexagonal tower
between the two, like that existing at Lynn, has perished.  Thc
cloister and monastic buildings remain tolerably perfect to the
north.  The Dominican convent at Gloucester still exhibits the
cloister-court, on the north side of which is the desecrated
church.  The refectory is on the west side and on the south
the dormitory of the 13th century.  This is a remarkably good
example.  There were 18 cells or cubicles on each side, divided
by partitions, the bases of which remain.  On the east side
was the prior's house, a building of later date.  At the Grey
or Franciscan Friars, the church followed the ordinary type in
having two equal bodies, each gabled, with a continuous range of
windows.  There was a slender tower between the nave and the choir.

Hulne.

Of the convents of the Carmelite or White Friars we have a
good example in the Abbey of Hulne, near Alnwick, the first
of the order in England, founded A.D. 1240.  The church
is a narrow oblong, destitute of aisles, 123 ft. long by
only 26 ft. wide.  The cloisters are to the south, with
the chapter-house, &c., to the east, with the dormitory
over.  The prior's lodge is placed to the west of the
cloister.  The guest-houses adjoin the entrance gateway, to
which a chapel was annexed on the south side of the conventual
area.  The nave of the church of the Austin Friars or Eremites
in London is still standing.  It is of Decorated date, and
has wide centre and side aisles, divided by a very light and
graceful arcade.  Some fragments of the south walk of the
cloister of the Grey Friars remained among the buildings of
Christ's Hospital (the Blue-Coat School), while they were still
standing.  Of the Black Friars all has perished but the
name.  Taken as a whole, the remains of the establishments of
the friars afford little warrant for the bitter invective of
the Benedictine of St Alban's, Matthew Paris:---``The friars
who have been founded hardly 40 years have built residences
as the palaces of kings.  These are they who, enlarging day
by day their sumptuous edifices, encircling them with lofty
walls, lay up in them their incalculable treasures, imprudently
transgressing the bounds of poverty and violating the very
fundamental rules of their profession.'' Allowance must here be
made for jealousy of a rival order just rising in popularity.

Cells.

Every large monastery had depending upon it one or more smaller
establishments known as cells. These cells were monastic
colonies, sent forth by the parent house, and planted on some
outlying estate.  As an example, we may refer to the small
religious house of St Mary Magdalene's, a cell of the great
Benedictine house of St Mary's, York, in the valley of the
Witham, to the south-east of the city of Lincoln.  This consists
of one long narrow range of building, of which the eastern part
formed the chapel and the western contained the apartments of
the handful of monks of which it was the home.  To the east
may be traced the site of the abbey mill, with its dam and
mill-lead.  These cells, when belonging to a Cluniac house,
were called Obedientiae. The plan given by Viollet-le-Duc
of the Priory of St Jean des Bons Hommes, a Cluniac cell,
situated between the town of Avallon and the village of
Savigny, shows that these diminutive establishments comprised
every essential feature of a monastery,---chapel, cloister,
chapter-room, refectory, dormitory, all grouped according to the
recognized arrangement.  These Cluniac obedientiae differed
from the ordinary Benedictine cells in being also places of
punishment, to which monks who had been guilty of any grave
infringement of the rules were relegated as to a kind of
penitentiary.  Here they were placed under the authority of a
prior, and were condemned to severe manual labour, fulfilling
the duties usually executed by the lay brothers, who acted as
farmservants.  The outlying farming establishments belonging to
the monastic foundations were known as villae or granges.
They gave employment to a body of conversi and labourers
under the management of a monk, who bore the title of Brother
Hospitaller ---the granges, like their parent institutions,
affording shelter and hospitality to belated travellers.

AUTHORITIES.--Dugdale, Monasticon; Lenoir,
Architecture monastique (1852--1856); Veollet-le-Duc,
Dictionnaire raisonnee de l'architecture francaise;
Springer, Klosterleben und Klosterkunst (1886); Kraus,
Geschichte der christlichen Kunst (1896). (E. V.)

ABBON OF FLEURY, or ABBO FLORIACENSIS (c. 945-1004), a
learned Frenchman, born near Orleans about 945. He distinguished
himself in the schools of Paris and Reims, and was especially
proficient in science as known in his time.  He spent two
years in England, assisting Archbishop Oswald of York in
restoring the monastic system, and was abbot of Romsey.  After
his return to France he was made abbot of Fleury on the Loire
(988).  He was twice sent to Rome by King Robert the Pious
(986, 996), and on each occasion succeeded in warding off a
threatened papal interdict.  He was killed at La Reole in
1004, in endeavouring to quell a monkish revolt.  He wrote an
Epitomie de vitis Romanorum pontificum, besides controversial
treatises, letters, &c. (see Migne, Patrologia Latina, vol.
139).  His life, written by his disciple Aimoin of Fleury, in
which much of Abbon's correspondence was reproduced, is of great
importance as a source for the reign of Robert II., especially
with reference to the papacy (cf. Migne, op. cit. vol. 139).

See Ch. Pfister, Etudes sur le regne de Robert le Pieux (1885);
Cuissard-Gaucheron, ``L'Ecole de Fleury-sur-Loire a la fin du 10
siecle,'' in Memoires de la societe de l'Orleanais, xiv.
(Orleans, 1875); A. Molinier, Sources de l'histoire de France.

ABBOT, EZRA (1819--1884), American biblical scholar, was
born at Jackson, Waldo county, Maine, on the 28th of April
1819.  He graduated at Bowdoin College in 1840; and in
1847, at the request of Prof.  Andrews Norton, went to
Cambridge, where he was principal of a public school until
1856.  He was assistant librarian of Harvard University from
1856 to 1872, and planned and perfected an alphabetical card
catalogue, combining many of the advantages of the ordinary
dictionary catalogues with the grouping of the minor topics
under more general heads, which is characteristic of a systematic
catalogue.  From 1872 until his death he was Bussey Professor
of New Testament Criticism and Interpretation in the Harvard
Divinity School.  His studies were chiefly in Oriental languages
and the textual criticism of the New Testament, thoygh his
work as a bibliographer showed such results as the exhaustive
list of writings (5300 in all) on the doctrine of the future
life, appended to W. R. Alger's History of the Doctrine of
a Future Life, as it has prevailed in all Nations and Ages
(1862), and published separately in 1864.  His publications,
though always of the most thorough and scholarly character,
were to a large extent dispersed in the pages of reviews,
dictionaries, concordances, texts edited by others, Unitarian
controversial treatises, &c.; but he took a more conspicuous
and more personal part in the preparation (with the Baptist
scholar, Horatio B. Hackett) of the enlarged American edition
of Dr (afterwards Sir) William Smith's Dictionary of the
Bible (1867-1870), to which he contributed more than 400
articles besides greatly improving the bibliographical
completeness of the work; was an efficient member of the
American revision committee employed in connexion with the
Revised Version (1881-1885) of the King James Bible; and aided
in the preparation of Caspar Rene Gregory's Prolegomena to
the revised Greek New Testament of Tischendorf.  His principal
single production, representing his scholarly method and
conservative conclusions, was The Authorship af the Fourth
Gospel: External Evidences (1880; second edition, by J. H.
Thayer, with other essays, 1889), originally a lecture, and
in spite of the compression due to its form, up to that time
probably the ablest defence, based on external evidence,
of the Johannine authorship, and certainly the completest
treatment of the relation of Justin Martyr to this gospel.
Abbot, though a layman, received the degree of S. T. D. from
Harvard in 1872, and that of D.D. from Edinburgh in 1884. . He
died in Cambridge, Massachusetts, on the 21st of March 1884.

See S. J. Barrows, Ezra Abbot (Cambridge, Mass., 1884).

ABBOT, GEORGE (1562-1633), English divine, archbishop of
Canterbury, was born on the 19th of October 1562, at Guildford in
Surrey, where his father was a cloth-worker.  He studied, and
then taught, at Balliol College, Oxford, was chosen master of
University College in 1597, and appointed dean of Winchester in
1600.  He was three times vice-chancellor of the university,
and took a leading part in preparing the authorized version
of the New Testament.  In 1608 he went to Scotland with the
earl of Dunbar to arrange for a union between the churches
of England and Scotland.  He so pleased the king (James
I.) in this affair that he was made bishop of Lichfield and
Coventry in 1609, was translated to the see of London a month
afterwards, and in less than a year was raised to that of
Canterbury.  His puritan instincts frequently led him not
only into harsh treatment of Roman Catholics, but also into
courageous resistance to the royal will, e.g. when he
opposed the scandalous divorce suit of the Lady Frances Howard
against the earl of Essex, and again in 1618 when, at Croydon,
he forbade the reading of the declaration permitting Sunday
sports.  He was naturally, therefore, a promoter of the match
between the elector palatine and the Princess Elizabeth,
and a firm opponent of the projected marriage of the prince
of Wales with the infanta of Spain.  This policy brought
upon him the hatred of Laud (with whom he had previously
come into collision at Oxford) and the court, though the
king himself never forsook him.  In 1622, while hunting in
Lord Zouch's park at Bramshill, Hampshire, a bolt from his
cross-bow aimed at a deer happened to strike one of the
keepers, who died within an hour, and Abbot was so greatly
distressed by the event that he fell into a state of settled
melancholy.  His enemies maintained that the fatal issue of
this accident disqualified him for his office, and argued
that, though the homicide was involuntary, the sport of
hunting which had led to it was one in which no clerical
person could lawfully indulge.  The king had to refer the
matter to a commission of ten, though he said that ``an angel
might have miscarried after this sort.'' The commission was
equally divided, and the king gave a casting vote in the
archbishop's favour, though signing also a formal pardon or
dispensation.  After this the archbishop seldom appeared
at the council, chiefly on account of his infirmities.  He
attended the king constantly, however, in his last illness,
and performed the ceremony of the coronation of Charles I.
His refusal to license the assize sermon preached by Dr Robert
Sibthorp at Northampton on the 22nd of February 1626-1627, in
which cheerful obedience was urged to the king's demand for a
general loan, and the duty proclaimed of absolute non-resistance
even to the most arbitrary royal commands, led Charles to
deprive him of his functions as primate, putting them in
commission.  The need of summoning parliament, however,
soon brought about a nominal restoration of the archbishop's
powers.  His presence being unwelcome at court, he lived
from that time in retirement, leaving Laud and his party in
undisputed ascendancy.  He died at Croydon on the 5th of August
1633, and was buried at Guildford, his native place, where
he had endowed a hospital with lands to the value of L. 300 a
year.  Abbot was a conscientious prelate, though narrow in view
and often harsh towards both separatists and Romanists.  He
wrote a large number of works, the most interesting being his
discursive Exposition on the Prophet Jonah (1600), which was
reprinted in 1845.  His Geography, or a Brief Description
of the Whole World (1599), passed through numerous editions.

The best account of him is in S. R. Gardiner's History of England.

ABBOT, GEORGE (1603-1648), English writer, known as ``The
Puritan,'' has been oddly and persistently mistaken for
others.  He has been described as a clergyman, which he never
was, and as son of Sir Morris (or Maurice) Abbot, and his
writings accordingly entered in the bibliographical authorities
as by the nephew of the archbishop of Canterbury.  One of the
sons of Sir Morris Abbot was, indeed, named George, and he
was a man of mark, but the more famous George Abbot was of a
different family altogether.  He was son or grandson (it is
not clear which) of Sir Thomas Abbot, knight of Easington,
East Yorkshire, having been born there in 1603--1604,
his mother (or grandmother) being of the ancient house of
Pickering.  Of his early life and training nothing is
known.  He married a daughter of Colonel Purefoy of Caldecote,
Warwickshire, and as his monument, which may still be seen
in the church there, tells, he bravely held the manor house
against Princes Rupert and Maurice during the civil war.  As
a layman, and nevertheless a theologian and scholar of rare
ripeness and critical ability, he holds an almost unique
place in the literature of the period.  The terseness of his
Whole Booke of Job Paraphrased, or made easy for any to
understand (1640, 4to), contrasts favourably with the usual
prolixity of the Puritan expositors and commentators.  His
Vindiciae Sabbathi (1641, 8vo) had a profound and lasting
influence in the long Sabbatarian controversy.  His Brief
Notes upon the Whole Book of Psalms (1651, 4to), as its date
shows, was posthumous.  He died on the 2nd of February 1648.

AUTHORITIES--MS.collections at Abbeyville for history of all
of the name of Abbot, by J. T. Abbot, Esq., F.S.A., Darlington;
Dugdale's Antiquities of Warwickshire, 1730 p. 1099; Wood's
Athenae (Bliss), ii.141, 594; Cox's Literature of the Sabbath.

ABBOT, ROBERT (1588?-1662?), English Puritan divine.  Noted
as this worthy was in his own time, and representative in
various ways, he has often since been confounded with others,
e.g. Robert Abbot, bishop of Salisbury.  He is also wrongly
described as a relative of Archbishop Abbot, from whom he
acknowledges very gratefully, in the first of his epistles
dedicatory of A Hand of Fellowship to Helpe Keepe out Sinne
and Antichrist (1623, 4to), that he had ``received all'' his
``worldly maintenance,'' as well as ``best earthly countenance',
and ``fatherly incouragements.', The worldly maintenance
was the presentation in 1616 to the vicarage of Cranbrook in
Kent.  He had received his education at Cambridge, where he
proceeded M.A., and was afterwards incorporated at Oxford.  In
1639, in the epistle to the reader of his most noticeable book
historically, his Triall of our Church-Forsakers, he tells
us, ``I have lived now, by God's gratious dispensation, above
fifty years, and in the place of my allotment two and twenty
full.'' The former date carries us back to 1588-1589, or
perhaps 1587-1588 ---the ``Armada'' year---as his birth-time;
the latter to 1616-1617 (ut supra). In his Bee Thankfull
London and her Sisters (1626), he describes himself as
formerly ``assistant to a reverend divine . . . now with
God,'' and the name on the margin is ``Master Haiward of Wool
Church (Dorset).'' This was doubtless previous to his going to
Cranbrook.  Very remarkable and effective was Abbot's
ministry at Cranbrook, where his parishioners were as his
own ``sons and daughters'' to him.  Yet, Puritan though he
was, he was extremely and often unfairly antagonistic to
Nonconformists.  He remained at Cranbrook until 1643, when,
Parliament deciding against pluralities of ecclesiastical
offices, he chose the very inferior living of Southwick,
Hants, as between the one and the other.  He afterwards
succeeded the ``extruded'' Udall of St Austin's, London,
where according to the Warning-piece he was still pastor in
1657.  He disappears silently between 1657-1658 and 1662.
Robert Abbot's books are conspicuous amongst the productions
of his time by their terseness and variety.  In addition to
those mentioned above he wrote Milk for Babes, or a Mother's
Catechism for her Children (1646), and A Christian Family
builded by God, or Directions for Governors of Families (1653).

AUTHORITIES.--.Brook's Puritans, iii. 182, 3; Walker's
Sufferings, ii. 183; Wood's Athenae (Bliss), i. 323;
Palmer's Nonconf.  Mem. ii. 218, which confuses him most
oddly of all with one of the ejected ministers of 1662.

ABBOT, WILLIAM (1798--1843), English actor, was born in
Chelsea, and made his first appearance on the stage at Bath
in 1806, and his first London appearance in 1808.  At Covent
Garden in 1813, in light comedy and melodrama, he made his
first decided success.  He Was Pylades to Macready's Orestes
in Ambrose Philips's Distressed Mother when Macready made
his first appearance at that theatre (1816).  He created the
parts of Appius Claudius in Sheridan Knowles's Virginius
(1820) and of Modus in his Hunchback (1832).  In 1827 he
organized the company, including Macready and Miss Smithson,
which acted Shakespeare in Paris.  On his return to London
he played Romeo to Fanny Kemble's Juliet (1830).  Two of
Abbot's melodramas, The Youthful Days of Frederick the Great
(1817) and Swedish Patriotism (1819), were produced at
Covent Garden.  He died in poverty at Baltimore, Maryland.

ABBOT (from the Hebrew ab, a father, through the Syriac
abba, Lat. abbas, gen. abbatis, O.E. abbad, fr. late
Lat. form abbad-em changed in 13th century under influence
of the Lat. form to abbat, used abternatively till the end
of the 17th century; Ger. Abt; Fr. abbe), the head and
chief governor of a community of monks, called also in the
East hegumenos or archimandrite.  The title had its origin
in the monasteries of Syria, whence it spread through the
East, and soon became accepted generally in all languages as
the designation of the head of a monastery.  At first it was
employed as a respectful title for any monk, as we learn from St
Jerome, who denounced the custom on the ground that Christ had
said, ``Call no man father on earth'' (in Epist. ad Gal.
iv. 6, in Matt. xxiii. 9), but it was soon restricted to the
superior.  The name ``abbot,'' though general in the West,
was never universal.  Among the Dominicans, Carmelites,
Augustinians, &c., the superior was called Praepositus,
``provost,'' and Prior; among the Franciscans, Custos,
``guardian''; and by the monks of Camaldoi, Major.

In Egypt, the first home of monasticism, the jurisdiction
of the abbot, or archimandrite, was but loosely defined.
Sometimes he ruled over only one community, sometimes over
several, each of which had its own abbot as well.  Cassian
speaks of an abbot of the Thebaid who had 500 monks under
him, a number exceeded in other cases.  By the rule of St
Benedict, which, until the reform of Cluny, was the norm
in the West, the abbot has jurisdiction over only one
community.  The rule, as was inevitable, was subject to
frequent violations; but it was not until the foundation of
the Cluniac Order that the idea of a supreme abbot, exercising
jurisdiction over all the houses of an order, was definitely
recognized.  New styles were devised to express this new
relation; thus the abbot of Monte Cassino was called abbas
abbatum, while the chiefs of other orders had the tities
abbas generails, or magister or minister generalis.

Monks, as a rule, were laymen, nor at the outset was the abbot
any exception.  All orders of clergy, therefore, even the
``doorkeeper,', took precedence of him.  For the reception
of the sacraments, and for other religious offices, the
abbot and his monks were commanded to attend the nearest
church (Nocellae, 133, c. ii.).  This rule naturally proved
inconvenient when a monastery was situated in a desert or at
a distance from a city, and necessity compelled the ordination
of abbots.  This innovation was not introduced without a
struggle, ecclesiastical dignity being regarded as inconsistent
with the higher spiritual life, but, before the close of
the 5th century, at least in the East, abbots seem almost
universally to have become deacons, if not presbyters.  The
change spread more slowly in the West, where the office of
abbot was commonly filled by laymen till the end of the 7th
century, and partially so up to the 11th.  Ecclesiastical
councils were, however, attended by abbots.  Thus at that
held at Constantinople, A.D. 448, for the condemnation of
Eutyches, 23 archimandrites or abbots sign, with 30 bishops,
and, c A.D. 690, Archbishop Theodore promulgated a
canon, inhibiting bishops from compelling abbots to attend
councils.  Examples are not uncommon in Spain and in England
in Saxon times.  Abbots were permitted by the second council
of Nicaea, A.D. 787, to ordain their monks to the inferior
orders.  This rule was adopted in the West, and the strong
prejudice against clerical monks having gradually broken down,
eventually monks, almost without exception, took holy orders.

Abbots were originally subject to episcopal jurisdiction, and
continued generally so, in fact, in the West till the 11th
century.  The Code of Justinian (lib. i. tit. iii. de Ep. leg.
xl.) expressly subordinates the abbot to episcopal oversight.
The first case recorded of the partial exemption of an abbot
from episcopal control is that of Faustus, abbot of Lerins,
at the council of Arles, A.D. 456; but the exorbitant claims
and exactions of bishops, to which this repugnance to episcopal
control is to be traced, far more than to the arrogance of
abbots, rendered it increasingly frequent, and, in the 6th
century, the practice of exempting religious houses partly or
altogether from episcopal control, and making them responsible
to the pope alone, received an impulse from Gregory the
Great.  These exceptions, introduced with a good object, had
grown into a widespread evil by the 12th century, virtually
creating an imperium in imperio, and depriving the bishop
of all authority over the chief centres of influence in his
diocese.  In the 12th century the abbots of Fulda claimed
precedence of the archbishop of Cologne.  Abbots more and
more assumed almost episcopal state, and in defiance of the
prohibition of early councils and the protests of St Bernard and
others, adopted the episcopal insignia of mitre, ring, gloves and
sandals.  It has been maintained that the right to wear mitres
was sometimes granted by the popes to abbots before the 11th
century, but the documents on which this claim is based are
not genuine (J. Braun, Liturgische Gewandung, p. 453).  The
first undoubted instance is the bull by which Alexander II.
in 1063 granted the use of the mitre to Egelsinus, abbot of
the monastery of St Augustine at Canterbury (see MITRE). The
mitred abbots in England were those of Abingdon, St Alban's,
Bardney, Battle, Bury St Edmund's, St Augustine's Canterbury,
Colchester, Croyland, Evesham, Glastonbury, Gloucester,
St Benet's Hulme, Hyde, Malmesbury, Peterborough, Ramsey,
Reading, Selby, Shrewsbury, Tavistock, Thorney, Westminster,
Winchcombe, St Mary's York.  Of these the precedence was
originally yielded to the abbot of Glastonbury, until in
A.D. 1154 Adrian IV. (Nicholas Breakspear) granted it to the
abbot of St Alban's, in which monastery he had been brought
up.  Next after the abbot of St Alban's ranked the abbot of
Westminster.  To distinguish abbots from bishops, it was ordained
that their mitre should be made of less costly materials,
and should not be ornamented with gold, a rule which was soon
entirely disregarded, and that the crook of their pastoral
staff should turn inwards instead of outwards, indicating
that their jurisdiction was limited to their own house.

The adoption of episcopal insignia by abbots was followed
by an encroachment on episcopal functions, which had to be
specially but ineffectually guarded against by the Lateran
council, A.D. 1123.  In the East, abbots, if in priests'
orders, with the consent of the bishop, were, as we have
seen, permitted by the second Nicene council, A.D. 787,
to confer the tonsure and admit to the order of reader; but
gradually abbots, in the West also, advanced higher claims,
until we find them in A.D. 1489 permitted by Innocent
IV. to confer both the subdiaconate and diaconate.  Of
course, they always and everywhere had the power of admitting
their own monks and vesting them with the religious habit.

When a vacancy occurred, the bishop of the diocese chose
the abbot out of the monks of the convent, but the right
of election was transferred by jurisdiction to the monks
themselves, reserving to the bishop the confirmation of the
election and the benediction of the new abbot.  In abbeys
exempt from episcopal jurisdiction, the confirmation and
benediction had to be conferred by the pope in person, the house
being taxed with the expenses of the new abbot's journey to
Rome.  By the rule of St Benedict, the consent of the laity
was in some undefined way required; but this seems never
to have been practically enforced.  It was necessary that
an abbot should be at least 25 years of age, of legitimate
birth, a monk of the house, unless it furnished no suitable
candidate, when a liberty was allowed of electing from another
convent, well instructed himself, and able to instruct others,
one also who had learned how to command by having practised
obedience.  In some exceptional cases an abbot was allowed
to name his own successor.  Cassian speaks of an abbot in
Egypt doing this; and in later times we have another example
in the case of St Bruno.  Popes and sovereigns gradually
encroached on the rights of the monks, until in Italy the
pope had usurped the nomination of all abbots, and the king in
France, with the exception of Cluny, Premontre and other
houses, chiefs of their order.  The election was for life,
unless the abbot was canonically deprived by the chiefs of
his order, or when he was directly subject to them, by the
pope or the bishop.  The ceremony of the formal admission of
a Benedictine abbot in medieval times is thus prescribed by
the consuetudinary of Abingdon.  The newly elected abbot was
to put off his shoes at the door of the church, and proceed
barefoot to meet the members of the house advancing in a
procession.  After proceeding up the nave, he was to kneel
and pray at the topmost step of the entrance of the choir,
into which he was to be introduced by the bishop or his
commissary, and placed in his stall.  The monks, then kneeling,
gave him the kiss of peace on the hand, and rising, on the
mouth, the abbot holding his staff of office.  He then put
on his shoes in the vestry, and a chapter was held, and
the bishop or his commissary preached a suitable sermon.

The power of the abbot was paternal but absolute, limited,
however, by the canons of the church, and, until the general
establishment of exemptions, by episcopal control.  As a
rule, however, implicit obedience was enforced; to act
without his orders was culpable; while it was a sacred duty
to execute his orders, however unreasonable, until they were
withdrawn.  Examples among the Egyptian monks of this blind
submission to the commands of the superiors, exalted into
a virtue by those who regarded the entire crushing of the
individual will as the highest excellence, are detailed by
Cassian and others,--- e.g. a monk watering a dry stick,
day after day, for months, or endeavouring to remove a huge
rock immensely exceeding his powers.  St Jerome, indeed, lays
down, as the principle of the compact between the abbot and his
monks, that they should obey their superiors in all things,
and perform whatever they commanded (Ep. 2, ad Eustoch. de
custod. virgin.). So despotic did the tyranny become in the
West, that in the time of Charlemagne it was necessary to
restrain abbots by legal enactments from mutilating their
monks and putting out their eyes; while the rule of St
Columban ordained 100 lashes as the punishment for very slight
offences.  An abbot also had the power of excommunicating
refractory nuns, which he might use if desired by their abbess.

The abbot was treated with the utmost submission and reverence
by the brethren of his house.  When he appeared either in
church or chapter all present rose and bowed.  His letters
were received kneeling, like those of the pope and the
king.  If he gave a command, the monk receiving it was also to
kneel.  No monk might sit in his presence, or leave it without his
permission.  The highest place was naturally assigned to him,
both in church and at table.  In the East he was commanded to
eat with the other monks.  In the West the rule of St Benedict
appointed him a separate table, at which he might entertain
guests and strangers.  This permission opening the door to
luxurious living, the council of Aix, A.D. 817, decreed that
the abbot should dine in the refectory, and be content with
the ordinary fare of the monks, unless he had to entertain a
guest.  These ordinances proved, however, generally ineffectual
to secure strictness of diet, and contemporaneous literature
abounds with satirical remarks and complaints concerning the
inordinate extravagance of the tables of the abbots.  When the
abbot condescended to dine in the refectory, his chaplains waited
upon him with the dishes, a servant, if necessary, assisting
them.  At St Alban's the abbot took the lord's seat, in the
centre of the high table, and was served on silver plate, and
sumptuously entertained noblemen, ambassadors and strangers of
quality.  When abbots dined in their own private hall, the rule
of St Benedict charged them to invite their monks to their table,
provided there was room, on which occasions the guests were
to abstain from quarrels, slanderous talk and idle gossiping.

The ordinary attire of the abbot was according to rule to be
the same as that of the monks.  But by the 10th century the
rule was commonly set aside, and we find frequent complaints of
abbots dressing in silk, and adopting sumptuous attire.  They
sometimes even laid aside the monastic habit altogether, and
assumed a secular dress.1 This was a necessary consequence of
their following the chase, which was quite usual, and indeed at
that time only natural.  With the increase of wealth and power,
abbots had lost much of their special religious character, and
become great lords, chiefly distinguished from lay lords by
celibacy.  Thus we hear of abbots going out to sport, with
their men carrying bows and arrows; keeping horses, dogs and
huntsmen; and special mention is made of an abbot of Leicester,
c. 1360, who was the most skilled of all the nobility in
harehunting.  In magnificence of equipage and retinue the
abbots vied with the first nobles of the realm.  They rode
on mules with gilded bridles, rich saddles and housings,
carrying hawks on their wrist, followed by an immense train of
attendants.  The bells of the churches were rung as they
passed.  They associated on equal terms with laymen of the
highest distinction, and shared all their pleasures and
pursuits.  This rank and power was, however, often used most
beneficially.  For instance, we read of Whiting, the last
abbot of Glastonbury, judicially murdered by Henry VIII.,
that his house was a kind of well-ordered court, where as
many as 300 sons of noblemen and gentlemen, who had been sent
to him for virtuous education, had been brought up, besides
others of a meaner rank, whom he fitted for the universities.
His table, attendance and officers were an honour to the
nation.  He would entertain as many as 500 persons of rank at
one time, besides relieving the poor of the vicinity twice a
week.  He had his country houses and fisheries, and when
he travelled to attend parliament his retinue amounted to
upwards of 100 persons.  The abbots of Cluny and Vendome
were, by virtue of their office, cardinals of the Roman church.

In process of time the title abbot was improperly transferred
to clerics who had no connexion with the monastic system,
as to the principal of a body of parochial clergy; and
under the Carolingians to the chief chaplain of the king,
Abbas Curiae, or military chaplain of the emperor, Abbas
Castrensis. It even came to be adopted by purely secular
officials.  Thus the chief magistrate of the republic at Genoa
was called Abbas Populi. Du Cange, in his glossary, also gives
us Abbas Campanilis, Clocherii, Palatii, Scholaris, &c.

Lay abbots (M. Lat. defensores, abbacomites, abbates laici,
abbates milites, abbates saeculares or irreligiosi,
abbatiarii, or sometimes simply abbates) were the outcome
of the growth of the feudal system from the 8th century
onwards.  The practice of commendation, by which---to meet
a contemporary emergency--the revenues of the community were
handed over to a lay lord, in return for his protection,
early suggested to the emperors and kings the expedient of
rewarding their warriors with rich abbeys held in commendam.
During the Carolingian epoch the custom grew up of granting
these as regular heritable fiefs or benefices, and by the 10th
century, before the great Cluniac reform, the system was firmly
established.  Even the abbey of St Denis was held in commendam
by Hugh Capet.  The example of the kings was followed by the
feudal nobles, sometimes by making a temporary concession
permanent, sometimes without any form of commendation
whatever.  In England the abuse was rife in the 8th
century, as may be gathered from the acts of the council of
Cloveshoe.  These lay abbacies were not merely a question of
overlordship, but implied the concentration in lay hands
of all the rights, immunities and jurisdiction of the
foundations, i.e. the more or less complete secularization of


1 Walworth, the fourth abbot of St Alban's, c. 930, is
charged by Matthew Paris with adopting the attire of a sportsman.

spiritual institutions.  The lay abbot took his recognized
rank in the feudal hierarchy, and was free to dispose of
his fief as in the case of any other.  The enfeoffment of
abbeys differed in form and degree.  Sometimes the monks were
directly subject to the lay abbot; sometimes he appointed a
substitute to perform the spirtual functions, known usually
as dean (decanus), but also as abbot (abbas legitimas,
monasticus, regularis). When the great reform of the 11th
century had put an end to the direct jurisdiction of the lay
abbots, the honorary title of abbot continued to be held by
certain of the great feudal famines, as late as the 13th century
and later, the actual head of the community retaining that of
dean.  The connexion of the lesser lay abbots with the
abbeys, especially in the south of France, lasted longer;
and certain feudal families retained the title of abbes
chevaliers (abbates milltes) for centuries, together with
certain rights over the abbey lands or revenues.  The abuse was
not confined to the West.  John, patriarch of Antioch, at the
beginning of the 12th Century, informs us that in his time most
monasteries had been handed over to laymen, bencficiarii,
for life, or for part of their lives, by the emperors.

In conventual cathedrals, where the bishop occupied the
place of the abbot, the functions usually devolving on
the superior of the monastery were performed by a prior.

The title abbe (Ital. abbate), as commonly used in the
Catholic church on the European continent, is the equivalent
of the English ``Father,'' being loosely applied to all who
have received the tonsure.  This use of the title is said to
have originated in the right conceded to the king of France,
by the concordat between Pope Leo X. and Francis I. (1516),
to appoint abbes commendataires to most of the abbeys in
France.  The expectation of obtaining these sinecures drew
young men towards the church in considerable numbers, and
the class of abbes so formed ---abbes de cour they were
sometimes called, and sometimes (ironically) abbes de sainte
esperance, abbes of St Hope---came to hold a recognized
position.  The connexion many of them had with the church
was of the slenderest kind, consisting mainly in adopting
the name of abbe, after a remarkably moderate course of
theological study, practising celibacy and wearing a distinctive
dress--a short dark-violet coat with narrow collar.  Being
men of presumed learning and undoubted leisure, many of the
class found admission to the houses of the French nobility
as tutors or advisers.  Nearly every great family had its
abbe.  The class did not survive the Revolution; but the
courtesy title of abbe, having long lost all connexion in
people's minds with any special ecclesiastical function, remained
as a convenient general term applicable to any clergyman.

In the German Evangelical church the title of abbot (Abt) is
sometimes bestowed, like abbe, as an honorary distinction,
and sometimes survives to designate the heads of monasteries
converted at the Reformation into collegiate foundations.  Of
these the most noteworthy is the abbey of Lokkum in Hanover,
founded as a Cistercian house in 1163 by Count Wilbrand of
Hallermund, and reformed in 1593.  The abbot of Lokkum, who
still carries a pastoral staff, takes precedence of all the
clergy of Hanover, and is ex officio a member of the consistory
of the kingdom.  The governing body of the abbey consists of
abbot, prior and the ``convent'' of canons (Stiftsherren).

See Joseph Bingham, Origines ecclesiasticae (1840); Du
Cange, Glossarium med. et inf.  Lat. (ed. 1883); J. Craigie
Robertson, Hist. of the Christian Church (1858-1873); Edmond
Martene, De antiquis ecclesiae ritibus (Venice, 1783); C.
F. R. de Montalembert, Les moines d'occident depuis S. Benoit
jusqu'a S. Bernard (1860--1877); Achille Luchaire, Manuel
des institutions francaises (Par. 1892). (E.V.; W.A.P.)

1 The Architectural History of the Conventual Buildings of
the Monastery of Christ Church in Canterbury. By the Rev. Robert
Willis.  Printed for the Kent Archaeological Society, 1869.

ABBOTSFORD, formerly the residence of Sir Walter Scott,
situated on the S. bank of the Tweed, about 3 m.  W. of Melrose,
Roxburghshire, Scotland, and nearly 1 m. from Abbotsford Ferry
station on the North British railway, connecting Selkirk and
Galashiels.  The nucleus of the estate was a small farm of 100
acres, called Cartleyhole, nicknamed Clarty (i.e. muddy)
Hole, and bought by Scott on the lapse of his lease (1811)
of the neighbouring house of Ashestiel.  It was added to
from time to time, the last and principal acquisition being
that of Toftfield (afterwards named Huntlyburn), purchased in
1817.  The new house was then begun and completed in 1824.
The general ground-plan is a parallelogram, with irregular
outlines, one side overlooking the Tweed; and the style is
mainly the Scottish Baronial.  Into various parts of the fabric
were built relics and curiosities from historical structures,
such as the doorway of the old Tolbooth in Edinburgh.  Scott
had only enjoyed his residence one year when (1825) he met
with that reverse of fortune which involved the estate in
debt.  In 1830 the library and museum were presented to him
as a free gift by the creditors.  The property was wholly
disencumbered in 1847 by Robert Cadell, the publisher, who
cancelled the bond upon it in exchange for the family's share
in the copyright of Sir Walter's works.  Scott's only son Walter
did not live to enjoy the property, having died on his way
from India in 1847.  Among subsequent possessors were Scott's
son-in-law, J. G. Lockhart, J. R. Hope Scott, Q.C., and his
daughter (Scott's great-granddaughter), the Hon. Mrs Maxwell
Scott.  Abbotsford gave its name to the ``Abbotsford Club,''
a successor of the Bannatyne and Maitland clubs, founded
by W. B. D. D. Turnbull in 1834 in Scott's honour, for
printing and publishing historical works connected with his
writings.  Its publications extended from 1835 to 1864.

See Lockhart, Life of Scott; Washington Irving, Abbotsford
and Newstead Abbey; W. S. Crockett, The Scott Country.

ABBOTT, EDWIN ARROTT (1838- ), English schoolmaster and
theologian, was born on the 20th of December 1838.  He
was educated at the City of London school and at St John's
College, Cambridge, where he took the highest honours in the
classical, mathematical and theological triposes, and became
fellow of his college.  In 1862 he took orders.  After holding
masterships at King Edward's School, Birmingham, and at
Clifton College, he succeeded G. F. Mortimer as headmaster
of the City of London school in 1865 at the early age of
twenty-six.  He was Hulsean lecturer in 1876.  He retired
in 1889, and devoted himself to literary and theological
pursuits.  Dr Abbott's liberal inclinations in theology
were prominent both in his educational views and in his
books.  His Shakespearian Grammar (1870) is a permanent
contribution to English philology.  In 1885 he published a
life of Francis Bacon.  His theological writings include three
anonymously published religious romances--Philochristus
(1878), Onesimus (1882), Sitanus (1906).  More weighty
contributions are the anonymous theological discussion The
Kernel and the Husk (1886), Philomythus (1891), his book
on Cardinal Newman as an Anglican (1892), and his article
``The Gospels'' in the ninth edition of the Encyclopaedia
Britannica, embodying a critical view which caused considerable
stir in the English theological world; he also wrote St
Thomas of Canterbury, his Death and Miracles (1898),
Johannine Vocabulary (1905), Johannine Grammar (1906).

His brother, Evelyn Abbott (1843-1901), was a well-known tutor of
Balliol, Oxford, and author of a scholarly History of Greece.

ABBOTT, EMMA (1849-1891), American singer, was born at
Chicago and studied in Milan and Paris.  She had a fine soprano
voice, and appeared first in opera in London under Colonel
Mapleson's direction at Covent Garden, also singing at important
concerts.  She organized an opera company known by her name,
and toured extensively in the United States, where she had
a great reputation.  In 1873 she married E. J. Wethereil.
She died at Salt Lake City on the 5th of January 1891.

ABBOTT, JACOB (1803-1879), American writer of books for the
young, was born at Hallowell, Maine, on the 14th of November
1803.  He graduated at Bowdoin College in 1820; studied at
Andover Theological Seminary in 1821, 1822, and 1824; was
tutor in 1824-1825, and from 1825 to 1829 was professor of
mathematics and natural philosophy in Amherst College; was
licensed to preach by the Hampshire Association in 1826;
founded the Mount Vernon School for young ladies in Boston in
1829, and was principal of it in 1829--1833; was pastor of
Eliot Congregational Church (which he founded), at Roxbury,
Mass., in 1834-1835; and was, with his brothers, a founder,
and in 1843--1851 a principal of Abbott's Institute, and in
1845--1848 of the Mount Vernon School for boys, in New York
City.  He was a prolific author, writing juvenile stories,
brief histories and biographies, and religious books for
the general reader, and a few works in popular science.
He died on the 31st of October 1879 at Farmington, Maine,
where he had spent part of his time since 1839, and where
his brother Samuel Phillips Abbott founded in 1844 the Abbott
School, popularly cailed ``Little Blue.'' Jacob Abbott's
``Rollo Books''-Rollo at Work, Rollo at Play, Rollo in
Europe, &c. (28 vols.)---are the best known of his writings,
having as their chief characters a representative boy and his
associates.  In them Abbott did for one or two generations
of young American readers a service not unlike that performed
earlier, in England and America, by the authors of Evenings at
Home, Sandford and Merton, and the Parent's Assistant. Of
his other writings (he produced more than two hundred volumes
in all), the best are the Franconia Stories (10 vols.),
twenty-two volumes of biographical histories in a series of
thirty-two volumes (with his brother John S. C. Abbott), and
the Young Christian,---all of which had enormous circulations.

His sons, Benjamin Vaughan Abbott (1830-1890), Austin Abbott
(1831-1896), both eminent lawyers, Lyman Abbott (q.v.), and
Edward Abbott (1841-1908), a clergyman, were also well-known
authors.  See his Young Christian, Memorial Edition, with
a Sketch of the Author by one of his sons, i.e. Edward
Abbott (New York, 1882), with a bibliography of his works.

ABBOTT, JOHN STEVENS CABOT (1805-1877), American writer,
was born in Brunswick, Maine, on the 18th of September
1805.  He was a brother of Jacob Abbott, and was associated
with him in the management of Abbott's Institute, New York
City, and in the preparation of his series of brief historical
biographies.  He is best known, however, as the author of
a partisan and unscholarly, but widely popular and very
readable History of Napoleon Bonaparte (1855), in which
the various elements and episodes in Napoleon's career are
treated with some skill in arrangement, but with unfailing
adulation.  Dr Abbott graduated at Bowdoin College in 1825,
prepared for the ministry at Andover Theological Seminary,
and between 1830 and 1844, when he retired from the ministry,
preached successively at Worcester, Roxbury and Nantucket,
Massachusetts.  He died at Fair Haven, Connecticut, on the 17th
of June 1877.  He was a voluminous writer of books on Christian
ethics, and of histories, which now seem unscholarly and
untrustworthy, but were valuable in their time in cultivating
a popular interest in history.  In general, except that
he did not write juvenile fiction, his work in subject and
style closely resembles that of his brother, Jacob Abbott.

ABBOTT, LYMAN (1835- ), American divine and author, was
born at Roxbury, Massachusetts, on the 18th of December 1835,
the son of Jacob Abbott.  He graduated at the University
of New York in 1853, studied law, and was admitted to the
bar in 1856; but soon abandoned the legal profession, and,
after studying theology with his uncle, J. S. C. Abbott,
was ordained a minister of the Congregational Church in
1860.  He was pastor of a church in Terre Haute, Indiana, in
1860-1865, and of the New England Church in New York City in
1865--1869.  From 1865 to 1868 he was secretary of the American
Union (Freedman's) Commission.  In 1869 he resigned his pastorate
to devote himself to literature.  He was an associate editor of
Harper's Magazine, was editor of the Illustrated Christian
Weekly, and was co-editor (1876-1881) of The Christian
Union with Henry Ward Beecher, whom he succeeded in 1888 as
pastor of Plymouth Church, Brooklyn.  From this pastorate he
resigned ten years later.  From 1881 he was editor-in-chief
of The Christian Union, renamed The Outlook in 1893; this
periodical reflected his efforts toward social reform, and, in
theology, a liberality, humanitarian and nearly unitarian.
The latter characteristics marked his published works also.

His works include Jesus of Nazareth (1869); Illustrated
Commentary on the New Testament (4 vols., 1875); A Study
in Human Nature (1885); Life of Christ (1894); Evolution
of Christianity (Lowell Lectures, 1896); The Theology of
an Evolutionist (1897); Christianity and Social Problems
(1897); Life and Letters of Paul, (1898); The Life that
Really is (1899); Problems of Life (1900); The Rights
of Man (1901); Henry Ward Beecher (1903); The Christian
Ministry (1905); The Personality of God (1905); Industrial
Problems (1905); and Christ's Secret of Happiness (1907).
He edited Sermons of Henry Ward Beecher (2 vols., 1868).

ABBOTTADAD, a town of British India, 4120 ft. above
sealevel, 63 m. from Rawalpindi, the headquarters of the
Hazara district in the N.W. Frontier Province, called after
its founder, Sir James Abbott, who settled this wild district
after the annexation of the Punjab.  It is an important
military cantonment and sanatorium, being the headquarters of
a brigade in the second division of the northern army corps.
In 1901 the population of the town and cantonment was 7764.

ABBREVIATION (Lat. brevis, short), strictly a shortening;
more particularly, an ``abbreviation'' is a letter or group
of letters, taken from a word or words, and employed to
represent them for the sake of brevity.  Abbreviations, both
of single words and of phrases, having a meaning more or
less fixed and recognized, are common in ancient writings
and inscriptions (see PALAEOGRAPHY and DIPLOMATIC), and
very many are in use at the present time.  A distinction is
to be observed between abbreviations and the contractions
that are frequently to be met with in old manuscripts, and
even in early printed books, whereby letters are dropped
out here and there, or particular collocations of letters
represented by somewhat arbitrary symbols.  The commonest
form of abbreviation is the substitution for a word of its
initial letter; but, with a view to prevent ambiguity, one
or more of the other letters are frequently added.  Letters
are often doubled to indicate a plural or a superlative.

I. CLASSICAL ABBREVIATIONS.---The following list
contains a selection from the abbreviations that occur
in the writings and inscriptions of the Romans:--



                                  A.
 A.         Absolvo, Aedilis, Aes, Ager, Ago, Aio, Amicus, Annus, Antiquo,
              Auctor, Auditor, Augustus, Aulus, Aurum, Aut.
 A.A.       Aes alienum, Ante audita, Apud agrum, Aurum argentum.
 AA.        Augusti. AAA. Augusti tres.
 A.A.A.F.F. Auro argento acre flando feriundo.1
 A.A.V.     Alter ambove.
 A.C.       Acta causa, Alins civis.
 A.D.       Ante diem; e.g. A.D.V. Ante diem quintum.
 A.D.A.     Ad dandos agros.
 AEO.       Aedes, Aedilis, Aedilitas.
 AEM. and AIM.        Aemilius, Aemilia.
 AER.       Aerarium. AER.P. Aere publico.
 A.F.       Acture fide, Auli filius.
 AG.        Ager, Ago, Agrippa.
 A.G.       Ammo grato, Aulus Gellius.
 A.L.AE. and A.L.E.  Arbitrium litis aestimandae.
 A.M. and A.MILL.    Ad milliarium.
 AN.        Aniensis, Annus, Ante.
 ANN.       Annales, Anni, Annona.
 ANT.       Ante, Antonius.
 A.O.       Alii omnes, Amico optimo.
 AP.        Atppius, Apud.
 A.P.       Ad pedes, Aedilitia potestate.
 A.P.F.     Auro (or argento) publico feriundo.
 A.P.M.     Amico posuit monumentum, Annorum plus minus.
 A.P.R.C.   Anno post Romam conditam.
 ARG.       Argentum.
 AR.V.V.D.D.Aram votam volens dedicavit, Arma votiva dono dedit.
 AT         A tergo. Also A TE. and A TER.
 A.T.M.D.O. Aio te mihi dare oportere.
 AV.        Augur, Augustus, Aurelius.
 A.V.       Annos vixit.
 A.V.C.     Ab urbe condita.
 AVG.       Augur, Augustus.
 AVGG.      Augusti (generally of two). AVGGG. Augusti tres.
 AVT.PR.R.  Auctoritas provinciae Romanorum.

                                  B.
 B.         Balbius, Balbus, Beatus, Bene, Beneficiarius, Beneficium,
            Bonus, Brutus, Bustum.
 B.for V.      Berna Bivus, Bixit.
 B.A.       Bixit anos, Bonis auguriis, Bonus amabilis.
 BB.or B.B.    Bene bene, i.e. optime, Optimus.
 B.D.       Bonae deae, Bonum datum.
 B.DD.      Bonis deabus.
 B.D.S.M. Bene de se merenti.
 B.F.       Bona femina, Bona fides, Bona fortuna, Bonum factum.
 B.F.       Bona femina, Bona filia.
 B.H.       Bona hereditaria, Bonorum heres.
 B.I.       Bonum judicium. B.I.I. Boni judicis judicium.
 B.M.       Beatae memoriae, Bene merenti.
 B.N.       Bona nostra, Bonum nomen.
 BN.H.I.    Bona hic invenies.
 B.P.       Bona paterna, Bonorum potestas, Bonum publicum.
 B.Q.       Bene quiescat, Bona quaesita.
 B.RP.N.    Boho reipublicae natus.
 BRT.       Britannicus.
 B.T.       Bonorum tutor, Brevi tempore.
 B.V.       Bene vale, Bene vixit, Bonus vir.
 B.V.V.     Balnea vina Venus.
 BX.        Bixit, for vixit.

                                  C.
 C.         Caesar, Cains, Caput, Causa, Censor, Civis, Conors, Colonia,
                Comitialis (dies), Condemno, Consul, Cum, Curo, Custos.
 C.         Caia, Centuria, Cum, the prefix Con.
 C.B.       Civis bonus, Commune bonum, Conjugi benemerenti, Cui bono.
 C.C.       Calumniae causa, Causa cognita, Conjugi carissimae, Consilium
                cepit, Curiae consulto.
 C.C.C.     Calumniae cavendae causa.
 C.C.F.     Caesar (or Caius) curavit faciendum, Cains Caii filius.
 CC.VV.     Clarissimi viri.
 C.D.       Caesaris decreto, Cains Decius, Comitialibus diebus.
 CES.       Censor, Censores. CESS. Censores.
 C.F.       Causa fiduciae, Conjugi fecit, Curavit faciendum.
 C.H.       Custos heredum, Custos hortorum.
 C.I.       Caius Julius, Consul jussit, Curavit judex. .
 CL.        Clarissimus, Claudius, Clodius, Colonia.
 CL.V.      Clarissimus vir, Clypeum vovit.
 C.M.       Caius Marius, Causa mortis.
 CN.        Cnaeus.
 COH.       Coheres, Conors.
 COL.       Collega, Collegium, Colonia, Columna.
 COLL.      Collega, Coloni, Coloniae.
 COM.       Comes, Comitium, Comparatum.
 CON.       Conjux, Consensus, Consiliarius, Consul, Consularis.
 COR.       Cornelia (tribus), Cornelius, Corona, Corpus.
 COS.       Consiliarius, Consul, Consulares. COSS. Consules.
 C.P.       Carissimus or Clarissimus puer, Civis publicus, Curavit
                ponendum.
 C.R.       Cains Rufus, Civis Romanus, Curavit reficiendum.
 CS.        Caesar, Communis, Consul.
 C.V.       Clarissimus or Consularis vir.
 CVR.       Cura, Curator, Curavit, Curia.

                                  D.
 D.         Dat, Dedit, &c., De, Decimus, Decius, Decretum, Decurio,
                Deus, Dicit, &c., Dies, Divus, Dominus, Domus, Donum.
 D.C.       Decurio coloniae, Diebus comitialibus, Divus Caesar.
 D.D.       Dea Dia, Decurionum decreto, Dedicavit, Deo dedit, Dono dedit.
 D.D.D.     Datum decreto decurionum, Dono dedit dedicavit.
 D.E.R.     De ea re.
 DES.       Designatus.
 D.I.       Dedit imperator, Diis immortalibus, Diis inferis.
 D.l.M.     Deo invicto Mithrae, Diis inferis Manibus.
 D.M.       Deo Magno, Dignus memoria, Diis Manibus, Dolo malo.
 D.O.M.     Deo Optimo Maximo.
 D.P.S.     Dedit proprio sumptu, Deo perpetuo sacrum, De pecunia
                sua.

                                  E.
 E.         Ejus, Eques, Erexft, Ergo, Est, Et, Etiam, Ex.
 EG.        Aeger, Egit, Egregius.
 E.M.       Egregiae memoriae, Ejusmodi, Erexit monumentum.
 EQ.M.      Equitum magister.
 E.R.A.     Ea res agitur.

                                  F.
 F.         Fabius, Facere, Fecit, &c., Familia, Fastus (dies), Felix,
                Femina, Fides, Filius, Flamen, Fortuna, Frater, Fuit, Functus.
 F.C.       Faciendum curavit, Fidei commissume, Fiduciae causa.
 F.D.       Fidem dedit, Flamen Dialis, Fraude donavit.
 F.F.F.     Ferro flamma fame, Fortior fortuna fato.
 FL.        Filius, Flamen, Flaminius, Flavius.
 F.L.       Favete linguis, Fecit libens, Felix liber.
 FR.        Forum, Fronte, Frumentarius.
 F.R.       Forum Romanum.

                                  G.
 G.         Gaius (=Caius), Gallia, Gaudium, Gellius, Gemma, Gens,
                Gesta, Gratia.
 G.F.       Gemma fidelis (applied to a legion). So G.P.F. Gemma
                pia fidelis.
 GL.        Gloria.
 GN.        Genius, Gens, Genus, Gnaeus (=Cnaeus).
 G.P.R.     Genro populi Romani.

 H.
 H.         Habet, Heres, Hic, Homo, Honor, Hora.
                HER. Heres, Herennius. HER. and HERC. Hercules.
 H.L.       Hac lege, Hoc loco, Honesto loco.
 H.M.       Hoc monumentum, Honesta mulier, Hora mala.
 H.S.E.     Hic sepultus est, Hic situs est.
 H.V.       Haec urbs, Hic vivit, Honeste vixit, Honestus vir.

                                  I.
 I.         Immortalis, Imperator, In, Infra, Inter, Invictus, Ipse, Isis,
                Judex, Julius, Junius, Jupiter, Justus.
 IA.        Jam, Intra.
 I.C.       Julius Caesar, Juris Consultum, Jus civile.
 ID.        Idem, Idus, Interdum.
 l.D.       Inferis diis, Jovi dedicatnm, Jus dicendum, Jussu Dei.
 I.D.M.     Jovi deo magno.
 I.F.       In foro, In fronte.
 I.H.       Jacet hic, In honestatem, Justus homo.
 IM.        Imago, Immortalis, Immunis, Impensa.
 IMP.       Imperator, Imperium.
 I.O.M.     Jovi optimo maximo.
 I.P.       In publico, Intra provinciam, Justa persona.
 I.S.V.P.   Impensa sua vivus posuit.

                                  K.
 K.         Kaeso, Caia, Calumnia, Caput, Carus, Castra.
 K., KAL. and KL.   Kalendae.

                                  L.
 L.         Laelius, Legio, Lex, Libens, Liber, Libra, Locus, Lollius,
                Lucius, Ludus.
 LB.        Libens, Liberi, Libertus.
 L.D.D.D.   Locus datus decreto decurionum.
 LEG.       Legatus, Legio.
 LIB.       Liber, Liberalitas, Libertas, Libertus, Librarius.
 LL.        Leges, Libentissime, Liberti.
 L.M.       Libens merito, Locus monumenti.
 L.S.       Laribus sacrum, Libens solvit, Locus sacer.
 LVD.       Ludus.
 LV.P.F.    Ludos publicos fecit.

                                  M.
 M.         Magister, Magistratus, Magnus, Manes, Marcus, Marins,
                Marti, Mater, Memoria, Mensis, Miles, Monumentum, Mortuus,
                Mucius, Mulier.
 M'.        Manius.
 M.D.       Magno Deo, Manibus diis, Matri deum, Merenti dedit.
 MES.       Mensis. MESS. Menses.
 M.F.       Mala fides, Marci filius, Monumentum fecit.
 M.I.       Matri Idaeae, Matii Isidi, Maximo Jovi.
 MNT. and      MON. Moneta.
 M.P.       Male positus, Monumentum posuit.
 M.S.       Manibus sacrum, Memoriae sacrum, Manu scriptum.
 MVN.       Municeps, or municipium; so also MN., MV. and MVNIC.
 M.V.S.     Marti ultori sacrum, Merito votum solvit.

                                  N.
 N.         Natio, Natus, Nefastus (dies), Nepos, Neptunus, Nero,
                Nomen, Non, Nonae, Noster, Novus, Numen, Numerius,
                Numerus, Nummus.
 NEP.       Nepos, Neptunus.
 N.F.C.     Nostrae fidei commissum.
 N.L.       Non licet, Non liquet, Non longe.
 N.M.V.     Nobilis memoriae vir.
 NN.        Nostri. NN., NNO. and NNR. Nostrorum.
 NOB.       Nobilis. NOB., NOBR. and NOV. Novembris.
 N.P.       Nefastus primo (i.e. priore parto diei), Non potest.

                                  O.
 O.         Ob, Officium, Omnis, Oportet, Optimus, Opus, Ossa.
 OB.        Obiit, Obiter, Orbis.
 O.C.S.     Ob cives servatos.
 O.H.F.     Omnibus honoribus functus.
 O.H.S.S.   Ossa hic sita sunt.
 OR. Hora,  Ordo, Ornamentum.
 O.T.B.Q.   Ossa tua bene quiescant.

                                  P.
 P.         Pars, Passus, Pater, Patronus, Pax, Perpetuus, Pes, Pius,
                Plebs, Pondo, Populus, Post, Posuit, Praeses, Praetor,
                Primus, Pro, Provincia, Publicus, Publius, Puer.
 P.C.       Pactum conventum, Patres conscripti, Pecunia constituta,
 Ponendum curavit, Post consulatum, Potestate censoria.
 P.F.       Pia fidelis, Pius felix, Promissa fides, Publii filius.
 P.M.       Piae memoriae, Pius minus, Pontifex maximus.
 P.P.       Pater patratus, Pater patriae, Pecunia publica, Praepositus,
 Primipilus, Propraetor.
 PR.        Praeses, Praetor, Pridie, Princeps.
 P.R.       Permissu reipublicae, Populus Romanus.
 P.R.C.     Post Romam conditam.
 PR.PR.     Praefectus praetorii, Propraetor.
 P.S.       Pecunia sua, Plebiscitum, Proprio sumptu, Publicae saluti.
 P.V.       Pia victrix, praefectus urbi, Praestantissimus vir.

                                  Q.
 Q.         Quaestor, Quando, Quantus, Que, Qui, Quinquennalis,
                Quintus, Quirites.
 Q.D.R.     Qua de re.
 Q.I.S.S.   Quae infra scripta sunt; so Q.S.S.S. Quae supra, &c.
 QQ.        Quaecunque, Quinquennalis, Quoque.
 Q.R.       Quaestor reipublicae.

                                  R.
 R.         Recte, Res, Respublica, Retro, Rex, Ripa, Roma, Romanus,
                Rufus, Rursus.
 R.C.       Romana civitas, Romanus civis.
 RESP. and RP.       Respublica.
 RET.P. and RP.      Retro pedes.

                                  S.
 S.         Sacrum, Scriptus, Semis, Senatus, Sepultus, Servius,
                Servus, Sextus, Sibi, Sine, Situs, Solus, Solvit, Sub, Suus.
 SAC.       Sacerdos, Sacrificium, Sacrum.
 S.C.       Senatus consultum.
 S.D.       Sacrum diis, Salutem dicit, Senatus decreto, Sententiam
 S.D.M.       Sacrum diis Manibus, Sine dolo malo.
 SER.       Servius, Servus.
 S.E.T.L.   Sit ei terra levis.
 SN.        Senatus, Sententia, Sine.
 S.P.       Sacerdos perpetua, Sine pecunia, Sua pecunia.
 S.P.Q.R.   Senatus populusque Romanus.
 S.S.       Sanctissimus senatus, Supra scripture.
 S.V.B.E.E.Q.V.          Si vales bene est, ego quidem valeo.

                                  T.
 T.         Terminus, Testamentum, Titus, Tribunus, Tu, Turma, Tutor.
 TB., TI. and TIB.   Tiberius.
 TB., TR. and TRB.   Tribunus.
 T.F.       Testamentum fecit, Titi filius, Titulum fecit, Titus Flavius.
 TM.        Terminus, Testamentum, Thermae.
 T.P.       Terminum posuit, Tribunicia potestate, Tribunus plebis.
 TVL.       Tullius, Tunus.

                                  V.
 V.         Urbs, Usus, Uxor, Vale, Verba, Vestalis, Vester, Vir, Vivus,
                Vixit, Volo, Votum.
 VA.        Veterano assignatus, Vixit annos.
 V.C.       Vale conjux, Vir clarissimus, Vir consularis.
 V.E.       Verum etiam, Vir egregius, Visum est.
 V.F.       Usus fructus, Verba fecit, Vivus fecit.
 V.P.       Urbis praefectus, Vir perfectissimus, Vivus posuit.
 V.R.       Urbs Roma, Uti rogas, Votum reddidit.

 II. MEDIEVAL ABBREVIATIONS.--Of the different kinds of
 abbreviations in use in the middle ages, the following are
 examples:--
 A.M.       Ave Maria.
 B.P.       Beatus Paulus, Beatus Petrus. .
 CC.        Carissimus (atso plur. Carissimi), Clarissimus, Circum.
 D.         Deus, Dominicus, Dux.
 D.N.PP.    Dominus hoster Papa.
 U.F.       Felicissimus, Fratres, Pandectae (prob. for Gr. II).
 I.C. or I.X.    Jesus Christus.
 I.D.N.     In Dei nomine.
 KK.        Karissimus (or-mi).
 MM.        Magistri, Martyres, Matrimonium, Meritissimus.
 O.S.B.     Ordinis Sancti Benedicti.
 PP.        Papa, Patres, Piissimus.
 R.F.       Rex Francorum.
 R.P.D.     Reverendissimus Pater Dominus.
 S.C.M.     Sacra Caesarea Majestas.
 S.M.E.     Sancta Mater Ecclesia.
 S.M.M.     Sancta Mater Maria.
 S.R.I.     Sanctum Romanum Imperium.
 S.V.       Sanctitas Vestra, Sancta Virgo.
 V.         Venerabilis, Venerandus. .
 V.R.P.     Vestra Reverendissima Paternitas.

 III. ABBREVIATIONS NOW IN USE.--The import of these
 will often be readily understood from the connexion in which
 they occur. There is no occasion to explain here the common
 abbreviations used for Christian names, books of Scripture,
 months of the year, points of the compass, grammatical and
 mathematical terms, or familiar titles, like ``Mr,'' &c.

 The ordinary abbreviations, now or recently in use, may
 be conveniently classified under the following headings:-

 I. ABBREVIATED TITLES AND DESIGNATIONS.
 A.A.       Associate of Arts.
 A.B.       Able-bodied seaman; (in America) Bachelor of Arts.
 A.D.C.     Aide-de-Camp.
 A.M.       (Artium Magister), Master of Arts.
 A.R.A.     Associate of the Royal Academy.
 A.R.I.B.A. Associate of the Royal Institution of British Architects.
 A.R.S.A.   Associate of the Royal Scottish Academy.
 B.A.       Bachelor of Arts.
 Bart.      Baronet.
 B.C.L.     Bachelor of Civil Law.
 B.D.       Bachelor of Divinty.
 B.LL.      Bachelor of Laws.
 B.Sc.      Bachelor of Science.
 C.         Chairman.
 C.A.       Chartered Accountant.
 C.B.       Companion of the Bath.
 C.E.       Civil Engineer.
 C.I.E.     Companion of the Order of the Indian Empire.
 C.M.       (Chirurgiae Magister), Master in Surgery.
 C.M.G.     Companion of St Michael and St George.
 C.S.I.     Companion of the Star of India.
 D.C.L.     Doctor of Civil Law.
 D.D.       Doctor of Divinity.
 D.Lit. or Litt. D.   Doctor of Literature.
 D.M.       Doctor of Medicine (Oxford).
 D.Sc.      Doctor of Science.
 D.S.O.     Distinguished Service Order.
 Ebor.      (Eboracensis) of York.2
 F.C.S.     Fellow of the Chemical Society.
 F.D.       (Fidei Defensor), Defender of the Faith.
 F.F.P.S.   Fellow of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons (Glasgow)
 F.G.S.     Fellow of the Geological Society.
 F.K.Q.C.P.I.             Fellow of King and Queen's College of Physicians
 in Ireland.
 F.L.S.     Fellow of the Linnaean Society.
 F.M.       Field Marshal.
 F.P.S.     Fellow of the Philological Society.
 F.R.A.S.   Fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society.
 F.R C.P.   Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians.
 F.R.C.P.E. Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh.
 F.R.C.S.   Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons.
 F.R.G.S.   Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society.
 F.R.H.S.   Fellow of the Royal Horticultural Society.
 F.R.Hist.Soc.            Fellow of the Royal Historical Society.
 F.R.I.B.A. Fellow of the Royal Institution of British Architects.
 F.R.S.     Fellow of the Royal Society.
 F.R.S.E.   Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
 F.R.S.L.   Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature.
 F.S.A.     Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries.
 F.S.S.     Fellow of the Statistical Society.
 F.Z.S.     Fellow of the Zoological Society.
 G.C.B.     Knight Grand Cross of the Bath.
 G.C.H.     Knight Grand Cross of Hanover.
 G.C.I.E.   Knight Grand Commander of the Order of the Indian
                Empire.
 G.C.M.G.   Knight Grand Cross of St Michael and St George.
 G.C.S.I.   Knight Grand Commander of the Star of india.
 G.C.V.O.   Knight Grand Commander of the Victorian Order.
 H.H.       His or Her Highness.
 H.I.H.     His or Her Imperial Highness.
 H.I.M.     His or Her Imperial Majesty.
 H.M.       His or Her Majesty.
 H.R.H.     His or Her Royal Highness.
 H.S.H.     His or Her Serene Highness.
 J.         Judge.
 J.C.D.     (Juris Canonici Doctor, or Juris Civilis Doctor),
                Doctor of Canon or Civil Law.
 J.D.       (Juris utriusque Doctor), Doctor of Civil and Canon Law.
 J.P.       Justice of the Peace.
 K.C.       King's Counsel.
 K.C.B.     Knight Commander of the Bath.
 K.C.I.E.   Knight Commander of the Order of the Indian Empire.
 K.C.M.G.   Knight Commander of St Michael and St George.
 K.C.S.I.   Knight Commander of the Star of India.
 K.C.V.O.   Knight Commander of the Victorian Order.
 K.G.       Knight of the Garter.
 K.P.       Knight of St Patrick.
 K.T.       Knight of the Thistle.
 L.A.H.     Licentiate of the Apothecaries' Hall.
 L.C.C.     London County Council, or Councillor.
 L.C.J.     Lord Chief Justice
 L.J.       Lord Justice.
 L.L.A.     Lady Literate in Arts.
 LL.B.      (Legum Baccalaureus), Bachelor of Laws.
 LL.D.      (Legum Doctor), Doctor of Laws.
 LL.M.      (Legum Magister), Master of Laws.
 L.R.C.P.   Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians.
 L.R.C.S.   Licentiate of the Royal College of Surgeons.
 L.S.A.     Licentiate of the Apothecaries' Society.
 M.A.       Master of Arts.
 M.B.       (Medicinae Baccalaureus), Bachelor of Medicine
 M.C.       Member of Congress.
 M.D.       (Medicinae Doctor), Doctor of Medicine.
 M.Inst.C.E.             Member of the Institute of Civil Engineers.
 M.P.       Member of Parliament.
 M.R.       Master of the Rolls.
 M.R.C.P.   Member of the Royal College of Physicians.
 M.R.C.S.   Member of the Royal College of Surgeons.
 M.R.I.A.   Member of the Royal Irish Academy.
 Mus.B.     Bachelor of Music.
 Mus.D.     Doctor of Music.
 M.V.O.     Member of the Victorian Order.
 N.P.       Notary Public.
 O.M.       Order of Merit.
 P.C.       Privy Councillor.
 Ph.D.      (Philosophiae Doctor), Doctor of Philosophy.
 P.P.       Parish Priest.
 P.R.A.     President of the Royal Academy.
 R.         (Rex, Regina), King, Queen.
 R. & I.    Rex et Imperator.
 R.A.       Royal Academician, Royal Artillery.
 R.A.M.     Royal Academy of Music.
 R.E.       Royal Engineers.
 Reg. Prof. Regius Professor.
 R.M.       Royal Marines, Resident Magistrate.
 R.N.       Royal Navy.
 S. or St.             Saint.
 S.S.C.     Solicitor before the Supreme Courts of Scotland.
 S.T.P.     (Sacrosanctae Theologiae Professor), Professor of Sacred
                 Theology.
 V.C.       Vice-Chancellor, Victoria Cross.
 V.G.       Vicar-General.
 V.S.       Veterinary Surgeon.
 W.S.       Writer to the Signet [in Scotland]. Equivalent to Attorney

 2. ABBREVIATIONS DENOTING MONIES, WEIGHTS, AND MEASURES.
 ac.    acre.                  lb. or lb.  (libra), pound (weight).
 bar.   barrel.                 m. or mi. mile, minute.
 bus.   bushel.                 m. minim.
 c.     cent.                  mo. month.
 c. (or cub.) ft. &c. cubic foot,&c.   na. nail.
 cwt.   hundredweight.         oz. ounce.
 d.     (denarius), penny. pk. peck.
 deg.   degree.                po. pole.
 dr.    drachm or dram.    pt. pint.
 dwt.   pennyweight.            q. (quadrans), farthing.
 f.     franc.                 qr. quarter.
 fl.    florin.                qt. quart.
 ft.    foot.                  ro. rood.
 fur.   furlong.               Rs.4 rupees.
 gal.   gallon.                 s. or / (solidus), shilling.
 gr.    grain.                  s. or sec. second.
 h. or hr. hour.           sc. or scr. scruple.
 hhd.   hogshead.          sq. ft. &c, square foot, &c.
 in.    inch.                  st. stone.
 kilo.  kilometre.             yd. yard.
 L.,3 L. ,2 or l. (libra), pound (money).

 3. MISCELLANEOUS ABBREVIATIONS.

 A.         Accepted.
 A.C.       (Ante Christum), Before Christ.
 acc., a/c. or acct.        Account.
 A.D.       (Anno Domini), In the year of our Lord.
 A.E.I.O.U. Austriae est imperare orbi universo,5 or
                Alles Erdreich Ist Oesterreich Unterthan.
 Aet. or Aetat.            (Aetatis, [anno]), In the year of his age.
 A.H.       (Anno Hegirae), In the year of the Hegira (the Mohammedan
                era).
 A.M.       (Anno Mundi), In the year of the world.
 A.M.       (Ante meridiem), Forenoon.
 Anon.      Anonymous.
 A.U.C.     (Anno urbis conditae), In the year from the building
                of the city (i.e. Rome).
 A.V.       Authorized version of the Bible.
 b.         born.
 B.V.M.     The Blessed Virgin Mary.
 B.C.       Before Christ.
 c.         circa, about.
 C.         or Cap. (Caput), Chapter.
 C.         Centigrade (or Celsius's) Thermometer.
 cent.6 (Centnim), A hundred, frequently L. 100.
 Cf. or cp.       (Confer), Compare.
 Ch. or Chap.     Chapter.
 C.M.S.     Church Missionary Society.
 Co.        Company, County.
 C.O.D.     Cash on Delivery.
 Cr.        Creditor.
 curt.      Current, the present month.
 d.         died.
 D.G.       (Dei gratia), By the grace of God.
 Do.        Ditto, the same.
 D.O.M.     (Deo Optimo Maximo), To God the Best and Greatest.
 Dr.        Debtor.
 D.V.       (Deo volente), God willing.
 E.& O.E.   Errors and omissions excepted.
 e.g.       (Exempti gratia), For example.
 etc. or &c.     (Et caetera), And the rest; and so forth.
 Ex.        Example.
 F. or Fahr.     Fahrenheit's Thermometer.

 fec. (Fecit),   He made (or did) it.
 fl.        Flourished.
 Fo. or Fol.     Folio.
 f.o.b.     Free on board.
 G.P.O.     General Post Office.
 H.M.S.     His Majesty's Ship, or Service.
 Ib. or Ibid.    (Ibidem), In the same place.
 Id.        (Idem), The same.
 ie. (Id est),   That is.
 I.H.S.     A symbol for ``Jesus,', derived from the first three letters
                of the Greek (I E S); the correct origin was lost
                sight of, and the Romanized letters were then interpreted
                erroneously as standing for Jesus, Hominum Salvator,
                the Latin ``h'' and Greek long ``e'' being confused.
 I.M.D.G.   (In majorem Dei gloriam), To the greater glory of God.
 Inf. (Infra),   Below.
 Inst.      Instant, the present month.
 I.O.U.     I owe you.
 i.q.       (Idem quod), The same as.
 k.t.l.      (gr kai ta loipa) Et caetera, and the rest.
 L. or Lib. (Liber),      Book.
 Lat.       Latitude.
 l.c.       (Loco citato), In the place cited.
 Lon. or Long.       Longitude.
 L.S.       (Locus sigilli), The place of the seal.
 Mem.       (Memento), Remember, Memorandum.
 MS.        Manuscript. MSS. Manuscripts.
 N.B.       (Nota bene), Mark well; take notice.
 N.B.       North Britain (i.e. Scotland).
 N.D.       No date.
 nem. con.       (Nemine contradicente), No one contradicting.
 No.        (Numero), Number.
 N.S.       New Style.
 N.T.       New Testament.
 ob.        (Obiit), Died.
 Obs.       Obsolete.
 O.H.M.S.   On His Majesty's Service.
 O.S.       Old Style.
 O.S.B.     Ordo Sancti Benedicti (Benedictines).
 O.T.       Old Testament.
 P.         Page. Pp. Pages.
 @        (Per), For; e.g. @ lb., For one pound.
 Pinx.      (Pinxit), He painted it.
 P.M.       (Post Meridiem), Afternoon.
 P.O.       Post Office, Postal Order.
 P.O.O.     Post Office Order.
 P.P.C.     (Pour prendre conge), To take leave.
 P.R.       Prize-ring.
 prox.      (Proximo [mense]), Next month.
 P.S.       Postscript.
 Pt.        Part.
 p.t. or pro tem.   (Pro tempore), For the time.
 P.T.O.     Please turn over.
 Q., Qu., or Qy.    Query; Question.
 q.d.       (Quasi dicat), As if he should say: as much as to say.
 Q.E.D.     (Quod erot demonstrandum), Which was to be demonstrated.
 Q.E.F.     (Quod erat faciendum), Which was to be done.
 q.s. or quant. suff.      (Quantum sufficit), As much as is
                sufficient.
 q.v.       (Quod vide), Which see.
 R. or @.      (Recipe), Take.
 sqrt.  (=r. for radix), The sign of the square root.
 R.I.P.     (Requiescat in pace!), May he rest in peace!
 R.S.V.P.   (i Respondes s'il vous plait), please reply.
 sc.        (Scilicet), Namely; that is to say.
 Sc. or Sculp.  (Sculpsit), He engraved it.
 S.D.U.K.   Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge.
 seq. or sq., seqq. or sqq.   (Sequens, sequenitia), The following.
 S.J.       Society of Jesus.
 sp.        (Sine prole), Without offspring.
 S.P.C.K.   Society for the Promotion of Christian Knowledge
 S.P.G.     Society for the Propagation of the Gospel.
 S.T.D.    }
 S.T.B.    }Doctor, Bachelor, Licentiate of Theology.
 S.T.L.    }
 Sup.       (Supra), Above.
 s.v.       (Sub voce), Under the word (or heading).
 T.C.D.     Trinity College, Dublin.
 ult.       (Ultimo [mense]), Last month.
 U.S.       United States.
 U.S.A.     United States of America.
 v.         (versus), Against.
 v. or vid:      (Vide), See.
 viz.       (Videlicet), Namely.
 Xmas.      Christmas. This X is a Greek letter, corresponding to Ch.


See also Graevius's Thesaurus Antiquitatum (1694, sqq.);
Nicolai's Tractatus de Sigils Veterum; Mommsen's Corpus
Inscriptionum Latinarum (1863, sqq.); Natalis de Wailly's
Paleographie (Paris, 1838); Alph.  Chassant's Paleographie
(1854), and Dictionnaire des Abreviations (3rd ed.
1866); Campelli, Duzionario di Abbreviature (1899).

1 Describing the function of the triumviri monetales.

2 An archbishop or bishop, in writing his signature, substitutes
for his surname the name of his see; thus the prelates of
Canterbury, York, Oxford, London, &c., subscribe themselves
with their initials (Christian names only), followed by
Cantuar., Ebor., Oxon., Londin. (sometimes London.), &c.

3 Characters, not properly abbreviations, are used in the same
way; e.g. `` deg. '' for ``degrees, minutes, seconds'' (circular
measure); @, @, @ for ``ounces, drachms, scruples.'' @ is
probably to be traced to the written form of the z in ``oz.''

4 These forms (as well as $, the symbol for the
American dollar) are placed before the amounts.

5It is given to Austria to rule the whole earth.
The device of Austria, first adopted by Frederick III.

6``Per cent.'' is often signified by %, a form traceable to "100."

ABBREVIATORS, a body of writers in the papal chancery,
whose business was to sketch out and prepare in due form the
pope's bulls, briefs and consistorial decrees before these are
written out in extenso by the scriptores. They are first
mentioned in Extravagantes of John XXII. and of Benedict
XII. Their number was fixed at seventy-two by Sixtus IV.
From the time of Benedict XII. (1334-1342) they were classed
as de Parco majori or Praesidentiae majoris, and de
Parco minnori. The name was derived from a space in the
chancery, surrounded by a grating, in which the officials sat,
which is called higher or lower (major or minor) according to
the proximity of the seats to that of the vice-chancellor.
After the protonotaries left the sketching of the minutes
to the abbreviators, those de Parco majori, who ranked as
prelates, were the most important officers of the apostolic
chancery.  By Martin V. their signature was made essential to
the validity of the acts of the chancery; and they obtained in
course of time many important privileges.  They were suppressed
in 1908 by Pius X. and their duties were transferred to the
protonotarii apostolici participantes. (See CURIA ROMANA.)

ABDALLATIF, or ABD-UL-LATIF (1162-1231), a celebrated
physician and traveller, and one of the most voluminous writers
of the East, was born at Bagdad in 1162.  An interesting
memoir of Abdallatif, written by himself, has been preserved
with additions by Ibn-Abu-Osaiba (Ibn abi Usaibia), a
contemporary.  From that work we learn that the higher education
of the youth of Bagdad consisted principally in a minute and
careful study of the rules and principles of grammar, and in
their committing to memory the whole of the Koran, a treatise
or two on philology and jurisprudence, and the choicest Arabian
poetry.  After attaining to great proficiency in that kind of
learning, Abdallatif applied himself to natural philosophy and
medicine.  To enjoythe society of the learned, he went first
to Mosul (1189), and afterwards to Damascus.  With letters of
recommendation from Saladin's vizier, he visited Egypt, where
the wish he had long cherished to converse with Maimonides,
``the Eagle of the Doctors,'' was gratified.  He afterwards
formed one of the circle of learned men whom Saladin gathered
around him at Jerusalem.  He taught medicine and philosophy at
Cairo and at Damascus for a number of years, and afterwards,
for a shorter period, at Aleppo.  His love of travel led him
in his old age to visit different parts of Armenia and Asia
Minor, and he was setting out on a pilgrimage to Mecca when
he died at Bagdad in 1231.  Abdallatif was undoubtedly a
man of great knowledge and of an inquisitive and penetrating
mind.  Of the numerous works--mostly on medicine---which
Osaiba ascribes to bim, one only, his graphic and detailed
Account of Egypt (in two parts), appears to be known in
Europe.  The manuscript, discovered by Edward Pococke the
Orientalist, and preserved in the Bodleian Library, contains
a vivid description of a famine caused, during the author's
residence in Egypt, by the Nile failing to overflow its banks.
It was translated into Latin by Professor White of Oxford in
1800, and into French, with valuable notes, by De Sacy in 1810.

ABD-AR-RAHMAN, the name borne by five princes of the Omayyad dynasty,
amirs and caliphs of Cordova, two of them being rulers of great capacity.

ABD-AR-RAHMAN I. (756-788) was the founder of the branch of
the family which ruled for nearly three centuries in Mahommedan
Spain.  When the Omayyads were overthrown in the East by the
Abbasids he was a young man of about twenty years of age.
together with his brother Yahya, he took refuge with Bedouin
tribes in the desert.  The Abbasids hunted their enemies
down without mercy.  Their soldiers overtook the brothers;
Yahya was slain, and Abd-ar-rahman saved himself by fleeing
first to Syria and thence to northern Africa, the common
refuge of all who endeavoured to get beyond the reach of the
Abbasids.  In the general confusion of the caliphate produced
by the change of dynasty, Africa had fallen into the hands
of local rulers, formerly amirs or lieutenants of the Omayyad
caliphs, but now aiming at independence.  After a time
Abd-ar-rahman found that his life was threatened, and he
fled farther west, taking refuge among the Berber tribes of
Mauritania.  In the midst of all his perils, which read like
stories from the Arabian Nights, Abd-ar-rahman had been
encouraged by reliance on a prophecy of his great-uncle Maslama
that he would restore the fortune of the family.  He was
followed in all his wanderings by a few faithful clients of the
Omayyads.  In 755 he was in hiding near Ceuta, and thence
he sent an agent over to Spain to ask for the support of
other clients of the family, descendants of the conquerors of
Spain, who were numerous in the province of Elvira, the modern
Granada.  The country was in a state of confusion under the
weak rule of the amir Yusef, a mere puppet in the hands of a
faction, and was torn by tribal dissensions among the Arabs
and by race conflicts between the Arabs and Berbers.  It
offered Abd-ar-rahman the opportunity he had falled to find in
Africa.  On the invitation of his partisans he landed at
Almunecar, to the east of Malaga, in September 755. For a
time he was compelled to submit to be guided by his supporters,
who were aware of the risks of their venture.  Yusef opened
negotiations, and offered to give Abdar-rahman one of his
daughters in marriage and a grant of land.  This was far less
than the prince meant to obtain, but he would probably have
been forced to accept the offer for want of a better if the
insolence of one of Yusef's messengers, a Spanish renegade,
had not outraged a chief partisan of the Omayyad cause.  He
taunted this gentleman, Obeidullah by name, with being unable
to write good Arabic.  Under this provocation Obeidullah drew
the sword.  In the course of 756 a campaign was fought in
the valley of the Guadalquivir, which ended, on the 16th of
May, in the defeat of Yusef outside Cordova.  Abdar-rahman's
army was so ill provided that he mounted almost the only good
war-horse in it; he had no banner, and one was improvised by
unwinding a green turban and binding it round the head of a
spear.  The turban and the spear became the banner of the Spanish
Omayyads.  The long reign of Abd-arrahman I. was spent in a
struggle to reduce his anarchical Arab and Berber subjects to
order.  They had never meant to give themselves a master, and
they chafed under his hand, which grew continually heavier.
The details of these conflicts belong to the general history of
Spain.  It is, however, part of the personal history of
Abd-ar-rahman that when in 763 he was compelled to fight at the
very gate of his capital with rebels acting on behalf of the
Abbasids, and had won a signal victory, he cut off the heads
of the leaders, filled them with salt and camphor and sent
them as a defiance to the eastern caliph.  His last years were
spent amid a succession of palace conspiracies, repressed with
cruelty.  Abd-ar-rahman grew embittered and ferocious.  He was
a fine example of an oriental founder of a dynasty, and did his
work so well that the Omayyads lasted in Spain for two centuries
and a half.

ABD-AR-RAHMAN II. (822-852) was one of the weaker of
the Spanish Omayyads.  He was a prince with a taste for
music and literature, whose reign was a time of confusion.
It is chiefly memorable for having included the story of
the ``Martyrs of Cordova,'' one of the most remarkable
passages in the religious history of the middle ages.

ABD-AR-RAHMAN III. (912-961) was the greatest and the most
successful of the princes of his dynasty in Spain (for the
general history of his reign see SPAIN, History). He
ascended the throne when he was barely twenty-two and reigned
for half a century.  His life was so completely identified
with the government of the state that he offers less material
for biography than his ancestor Abd-ar-rahman I. Yet it
supplies some passages which show the real character of an
oriental dynasty even at its best.  Abd-ar-rahman III. was
the grandson of his predecessor, Abdallah, one of the weakest
and worst of the Spanish Omayyads.  His father, Mahommed,
was murdered by a brother Motarrif by order of Abdallah The
old sultan was so far influenced by humanity and remorse
that he treated his grandson kindly. 
  Abd-ar-rahman III.
came to the throne when the country was exhausted by more
than a generation of tribal conflict among the Arabs, and
of strife between them and the Mahommedans of native Spanish
descent.  Spaniards who were openly or secretly Christians
had acted with the renegades.  These elements, which formed
the bulk of the population, were not averse from supporting
a strong ruler who would protect them against the Arab
aristocracy.  These restless nobles were the most serious
of Abd-ar-rahman's enemies.  Next to them came the Fatimites
of Egypt and northern Africa, who claimed the caliphate,
and who aimed at extending their rule over the Mahommedan
world, at least in the west.  Abd-ar-rahman subdued the nobles
by means of a mercenary army, which included Christians.
He repelled the Fatimites, partly by supporting their
enemies in Africa, and partly by claiming the caliphate for
himself.  His ancestors in Spain had been content the the
title of sultan.  The caliphate was thought only to belong
to the prince who ruled over the sacred cities of Mecca and
Medina.  But the force of this tradition had been so far
weakened that Abd-ar-rahman could proclaim himself caliph on
the 16th of January 929, and the assumption of the title gave
him increased prestige with his subjects, both in Spain and
Africa.  His worst enemies were always his fellow Mahommedans.
After he was defeated by the Christians at Alhandega
in 939 through the treason of the Arab nobles in his
army (see SPAIN, History) he never again took the
field.  He is accused of having sunk in his later years
into the self-indulgent habits of the harem.  When the
undoubted prosperity of his dominions is quoted as an
example of successful Mahommedan rule, it is well to remember
that he administered well not by means of but in spite of
Mahommedans.  The high praise given to his administration may
even excite some doubts as to its real excellence.  We are
told that a third of his revenue sufficed for the ordinary
expenses of government, a third was hoarded and a third spent on
buildings.  A very large proportion of the surplus must
have been wasted on the palace-town of Zahra, built three
miles to the north of Cordova, and named after a favourite
concubine.  Ten thousand workmen are said to have been employed
for twenty-five years on this wonder, of which no trace now
remains.  The great monument of early Arabic architecture in
Spain, the mosque of Cordoya, was built by his predecessors,
not by him.  It is said that his harem included six thousand
women.  Abd-ar-rahman was tolerant, but it is highly probable
that he was very indifferent in religion, and it is certain
that he was a thorough despot.  One of the most authentic
sayings attributed to him is his criticism of Otto I. of
Germany, recorded by Otto's ambassador, Johann, abbot of
Gorze, who has left in his Vita an incomplete account
of his embassy (in Pertz, Mon. Germ. Scriptores, iv.
355-377).  He blamed the king of Germany for trusting his nobles,
which he said could only increase their pride and leaning to
rebellion.  His confession that he had known only twenty happy
days in his long reign is perhaps a moral tale, to be classed
with the ``omnia fui, et nil expedit'' of Septimius Severus.

In the agony of the Omayyad dynasty in Spain, two princes
of the house were proclaimed caliphs for a very short time,
Abd-ar-rahman IV. Mortada (1017), and Abd-ar-rahman V. Mostadir
(1023-1024).  Both were the mere puppets of factions, who
deserted them at once.  Abd-ar-rahman IV. was murdered
in the year in which he was proclaimed, at Guadiz, when
fleeing from a battle in which he had been deserted by his
supporters.  Abd-ar-rahman V. was proclaimed caliph in
December 1023 at Cordova, and murdered in January 1024 by a
mob of unemployed workmen, headed by one of his own cousins.

The history of the Omayyads in Spain is the subject of the Histoire
des Musulmans d'Espagne, by R. Dozy (Leiden, 1861). (D. H.)

ABD-EL-AZIZ IV. (1880- ), sultan of Morocco, son of Sultan
Mulai el Hasan III. by a Circassian wife.  He was fourteen
years of age on his father's death in 1894.  By the wise action
of Si Ahmad bin Musa, the chamberlain of El Hasan, Abd-el
Aziz's accession to the sultanate was ensured with but little
fighting.  Si Ahmad became regent and for six years showed
himself a capable ruler.  On his death in 1900 the regency
ended, and Abd-el-Aziz took the reins of government into his own
hands, with an Arab from the south, El Menebhi, for his chief
adviser.  Urged by his Circassian mother, the sultan sought
advice and counsel from Europe and endeavoured to act up to
it.  But disinterested advice was difficult to obtain, and
in spite of the unquestionable desire of the young ruler to
do the best for the country, wild extravagance both in action
and expenditure resulted, leaving the sultan with depleted
exchequer and the confidence of his people impaired.  His
intimacy with foreigners and his imitation of their ways were
sufficient to rouse fanaticism and create dissatisfaction.
His attempt to reorganize the finances by the systematic levy
of taxes was hailed with delight, but the government was not
strong enough to carry the measures through, and the money
which should have been used to pay the taxes was employed
to purchase firearms.  Thus the benign intentions of Mulai
Abdel-Aziz were interpreted as weakness, and Europeans were
accused of having spoiled the sultan and of being desirous of
spoiling the country.  When British engineers were employed
to survey the route for a railway between Mequinez and
Fez, this was reported as indicating an absolute sale of the
country.  The fanaticism of the people was aroused, and a
revolt broke out near the Algerian frontier.  Such was the
condition of things when the news of the Anglo-French Agreement
of 1904 came as a blow to Abd-el-Aziz, who had relied on
England for support and protection  against the inroads of
France.  On the advice of Germany he proposed the assembly of
an international conference at Algeciras in 1906 to consult
upon methods of reform, the sultan's desire being to ensure
a condition of affairs which would leave foreigners with no
excuse for interference in the control of the country, and
would promote its welfare, which Abd-el-Aziz had earnestly
desired from his accession to power.  The sultan gave his
adherence to the Act of the Algeciras Conference, but the
state of anarachy into which Morocco fell during the latter
half of 1906 and the beginning of 1907 showed that the young
ruler lacked strength sufficient to make his will respected
by his turbulent subjects.  In May 1907 the southern tribes
invited Mulai Hafid, an elder brother of Abd-el-Aziz, and
viceroy at Marrakesh, to become sultan, and in the following
August Hafid was proclaimed sovereign there with all the usual
formalities.  In the meantime the murder of Europeans
at Casablanca had led to the occupation of that port by
France.  In September Abd-el-Aziz arrived at Rabat from Fez
and endeavoured to secure the support of the European powers
against his brother.  From France he accepted the grand cordon
of the Legion of Honour, and was later enabled to negotiate a
loan.  His leaning to Christians aroused further opposition
to his rule, and in January 1908 he was declared deposed by
the ulema of Fez, who offered the throne to Hafid.  After
months of inactivity Abd-el-Aziz made an effort to restore
his authority, and quitting Rabat in July he marched on
Marrakesh.  His force, largely owing to treachery, was
completely overthrown (August 19th) when near that city,
and Abd-el-Aziz fled to Settat within the French lines
round Casablanca.  In November he came to terms with his
brother, and thereafter took up his residence in Tangier
as a pensioner of the new sultan.  He declared himself more
than reconciled to the loss of the throne, and as looking
forward to a quiet peaceful life. (See MOROCCO, History.)

ABD-EL-KADER (c. 1807-1883), amir of Mascara, the great
opponent of the conquest of Algeria by France, was born near
Mascara in 1807 or 1808.  His family were sherifs or descendants
of Mahomet, and his father, Mahi-ed-Din, was celebrated
throughout North Africa for his piety and charity.  Abd-el
Kader received the best education attainable by a Mussulman
of princely rank, especially in theology and philosophy, in
horsemanship and in other manly exercises.  While still a
youth he was taken by his father on the pilgrimage to Mecca
and Medina and to the tomb of Sidi Abd-el-Kader El Jalili at
Bagdad--events which stimulated his natural tendency to religious
enthusiasm.  While in Egypt in 1827, Abd-el-Kader is stated
to have been impressed, by the reforms then being carried out
by Mehemet Ali with the value of European civilization, and
the knowledge he then gained affected his career.  Mahi-ed-Din
and his son returned to Mascara shortly before the French
occupation of Algiers (July 1830) destroyed the government
of the Dey. Coming forward as the champion of Islam against
the infidels, Abd-el-Kader was proclaimed amir at Mascara in
1832.  He prosecuted the war against France vigorously and
in a short time had rallied to his standard all the tribes
of western Algeria.  The story of his fifteen years' struggle
against the French is given under ALGERIA. To the beginning
of 1842 the contest went in favour of the amir; thereafter
he found in Marshal Bugeaud an opponent who proved, in the
end, his master.  Throughout this period Abd-el-Kader showed
himself a born leader of men, a great soldier, a capable
administrator, a persuasive orator, a chivalrous opponent.
His fervent faith in the doctrines of Islam was unquestioned,
and his ultimate failure was due in considerable measure
to the refusal of the Kabyles, Berber mountain tribes whose
Mahommedanism is somewhat loosely held, to make common cause
with the Arabs against the French.  On the 21st of December
1847, the amir gave himself up to General Lamoriciere at Sidi
Brahim.  On the 23rd, his submission was formally made to the
duc d'Aumale, then governor of Algeria.  In violation of the
promise that he would be allowed to go to Alexandria or St Jean
d'Acre, on the faith of which he surrendered, Abd-el-Kader and
his family were detained in France, first at Toulon, then at
Pau, being in November 1848 transferred to the chateau of
Amboise.  There Abd-el-Kader remained until October 1852, when
he was released by Napoleon III. on taking an oath never again
to disturb Algeria.  The amir then took up his residence in
Brusa, removing in 1855 to Damascus.  In July 1860, when the
Moslems of that city, taking advantage of disturbances among
the Druses of Lebanon, attacked the Christian quarter and
killed over 3000 persons, Abd-el-Kader helped to repress the
outbreak and saved large numbers of Christians.  For this
action the French government, which granted the amir a pension
of L. 4000, bestowed on him the grand cross of the Legion of
Honour.  In 1865, he visited Paris and London, and was again in
Paris at the exposition of 1867.  In 1871, when the Algerians
again rose in revolt, Abd-el-Kader wrote to them counselling
submission to France.  After his surrender in 1847 he devoted
himself anew to theology and philosophy, and composed a
philosophical treatise, of which a French translation was
published in 1858 under the title of Rappel a l'intelligent.
Avis a l'indifferent. He also wrote a book on the Arab
horse.  He died at Damascus on the 26th of May 1883.

See Commdt.  J. Pichon, Abd el Kader, 1807--1883
(Paris [1899]): Alex.  Bellemare, Abd-el-Kader: sa
vie politique et militaire (Paris, 1863); Col. C. H.
Churchill, The Life of Abdel Kader (London, 1867).

ABDERA, an ancient seaport town on the south coast of Spain,
between Malaca and New Carthage, in the district inhabited by the
Bastuli.  It was founded by the Carthaginians as a trading
station, and after a period of decline became under the Romans
one of the more important towns in the province of Hispania
Baetica.  It was situated on a hill above the modern Adra
(q.v.).  Of its coins the most ancient bear the Phoenician
inscription abdrt with the head of Heracles (Melkarth) and
a tunny-fish; those of Tiberius (who seems to have made the
place a colony) show the chief temple of the town with two
tunny-fish erect in the form of columns.  For inscriptions
relating to the Roman municipality see C.I.L. ii. 267.

ABDERA, a town on the coast of Thrace near the mouth of the
Nestos, and almost opposite Thasos.  Its mythical foundation
was attributed to Heracles, its historical to a colony from
Clazomenae in the 7th century B.C. But its prosperity
dates from 544 B.C., when the majority of the people of
Teos migrated to Abdera after the Ionian revolt to escape
the Persian yoke (Herod. i. 168); the chief coin type, a
gryphon, is identical with that of Teos; the coinage is
noted for the beauty and variety of its reverse types.  The
town seems to have declined in importance after the middle
of the 4th century.  The air of Abdera was proverbial as
causing stupidity; but among its citizens was the philosopher
Democritus.  The ruins of the town may still be seen on
Cape Balastra; they cover seven small hills, and extend
from an eastern to a western harbour; on the S.W. hills
are the remains of the medieval settlement of Polystylon.

Mittheil. d. deutsch.  Inst.  Athens, xii. (1887),
p. 161 (Regel); Mem. de l'Acad. des Inscriptions,
xxxix. 211; K. F. Hermann, Ges. Abh. 90-111, 370 in.

ABDICATION (Lat. abdicatio, disowning, renouncing,
from ab, from, and dicare, to declare, to proclaim as
not belonging to one), the act whereby a person in office
renounces and gives up the same before the expiry of the time
for which it is held.  In Roman law, the term is especially
applied to the disowning of a member of a family, as the
disinheriting of a son, but the word is seldom used except
in the sense of surrendering the supreme power in a state.
Despotic sovereigns are at liberty to divest themselves of
their powers at any time, but it is otherwise with a limited
monarchy.  The throne of Great Britain cannot be lawfully
abdicated unless with the consent of the two Houses of
Parliament.  When James II., after throwing the great
seal into the Thames, fled to France in 1688, he did not
formally resign the crown, and the question was discussed
in parliament whether he had forfeited the throne or had
abdicated.  The latter designation was agreed on, for in a
full assembly of the Lords and Commons, met in convention,
it was resolved, in spite of James's protest, ``that King
James II. having endeavoured to subvert the constitution of
the kingdom, by breaking the original contract between king
and people, and, by the advice of Jesuits and other wicked
persons, having violated the fundamental laws, and having
withdrawn himself out of this kingdom, has abdicated the
government, and that the throne is thereby vacant.'' The
Scottish parliament pronounced a decree of forfeiture and
deposition.  Among the most memorable abdications of
antiquity may be mentioned that of Sulla the dictator, 79
B.C., and that of the Emperor Diocletian, A.D. 305. The
following is a list of the more important abdications of later


                                                      A.D.
 Benedict IX., pope . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
 Stephen II. of Hungary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1131
 Albert (the Bear) of Brandenburg . . . . . . . . . . 1169
 Ladislaus III. of Poland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1206
 Celestine V., pope . . . . . . . . . . . . .Dec. 13, 1294
 John Baliol of Scotland  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1296
 John Cantacuzene, emperor of the East  . . . . . . . 1355
 Richard II. of England . . . . . . . . . . Sept. 29, 1399
 John XXIII., pope  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1415
 Eric VII; of Denmark and XIII. of Sweden . . . . . . 1439
 Murad II., Ottoman Sultan  . . . . . . . . .1444 and 1445
 Charles V., emperor  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1556
 Christina of Sweden  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1654
 John Casimir of Poland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1618
 James II. of England . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1688
 Frederick Augustus of Poland . . . . . . . . . . . . 1704
 Philip V. of Spain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1724
 Victor Amadeus II. of Sardinia . . . . . . . . . . . 1730
 Ahmed III., Sultan of Turkey . . . . . . . . . . . . 1730
 Charles of Naples (on accession to throne of Spain). 1759
 Stanislaus II. of Poland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1795
 Charles Emanuel IV. of Sardinia  . . . . . . June 4, 1802
 Charles IV. of Spain . . . . . . . . . . . .Mar. 19, 1808
 Joseph Bonaparte of Naples . . . . . . . . . June 6, 1808
 Gustavus IV. of Sweden . . . . . . . . . . .Mar. 29, 1809
 Louis Bonaparte of Holland . . . . . . . . . July 2, 1810
 Napoleon I., French Emperor. . . . . . . . .April 4, 1814, and June 22, 1815
 Victor Emanuel of Sardinia . . . . . . . . .Mar. 13, 1821
 Charles X. of France . . . . . . . . . . . . Aug. 2, 1830
 Pedro of Brazil 1 . . . . . . . . . . . .April 7, 1831
 Miguel of Portgual . . . . . . . . . . . . . May 26, 1834
 William I. of Holland  . . . . . . . . . . . Oct. 7, 1840
 Louis Philippe, king of the French . . . . .Feb. 24, 1848
 Louis Charles of Bavaria . . . . . . . . . .Mar. 21, 1848
 Ferdinand of Austria . . . . . . . . . . . . Dec. 2, 1848
 Charles Albert of Sardinia . . . . . . . . .Mar. 23, 1849
 Leopold II. of Tuscany . . . . . . . . . . .July 21, 1859
 Isabella II. of Spain . . . . . . . . . . . June 25, 1870
 Amadeus I. of Spain . . . . . . . . . . . . Feb. 11, 1873
 Alexander of Bulgaria . . . . . . . . . . . Sept. 7, 1886
 Milan of Servia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mar. 6, 1889


1 Pedro had succeeded to the throne of Portugal in
1826, but abdicated it at once in favour of his daughter.

ABDOMEN (a Latin word, either from abdere, to hide,
or from a form adipomen, from adeps, fat), the belly,
the region of the body containing most of the digestive
organs. (See for anatomical details the articles ALIMENTARY
CANAL, and ANATOMY, Superficial and Artistic.)

ABDOMINAL SURGERY.---The diseases affecting this region
are dealt with generally in the article DIGESTIVE ORGANS,
and under their own names (e.g. APPENDICITIS). The term
``abdominal surgery'' covers generally the operations which
involve opening the abdominal cavity, and in modern times this
field of work has been greatly extended.  In this Encyclopaedia
the surgery of each abdominal organ is dealt with, for the
most part, in connexion with the anatomical description of
that organ (see STOMACH, KIDNEY, LIVER, &c.); but here the
general principles of abdominal surgery may be discussed.

Exploratory Laparotomy.---In many cases of serious intra-abdominal
disease it is impossible for the surgeon to say exactly
what is wrong without making an incision and introducing his
finger, or, if need be, his hand among the intestines.  With
due care this is not a perilous or serious procedure, and the
great advantage appertaining to it is daily being more fully
recognized.  It was Dr Oliver Wendell Holmes, the American
physiologist and poet, who remarked that one cannot say of
what wood a table is made without lifting up the cloth; so
also it is often impossible to say what is wrong inside the
abdomen without making an opening into it.  When an opening
is made in such circumstances---provided only it is done soon
enough--the successful treatment of the case often becomes a
simple matter.  An exploratory operation, therefore, should
be promptly resorted to as a means of diagnosis, and not left
as a last resource till the outlook is well-nigh hopeless.

It is probable that if the question were put to any experienced
hospital surgeon if he had often had cause to regret having
advised recourse to an exploratory operation on the abdomen,
his answer would be in the negative, but that, on the other
hand, he had not infrequently had cause to regret that he
had not resorted to it, post-mortem examination having
shown that if only he had insisted on an exploratioui being
made, some band, some adhesion, some tumour, some abscess
might have been satisfactorily dealt with, which, left
unsuspected in the dark cavity, was accountable for the
death.  A physician by himself is helpless in these cases.

Much of the rapid advance which has of late been made in
the results of abdominal surgery is due to the improved
relationship which exists between the public and the surgical
profession.  In former days it was not infrequently said, ``If
a surgeon is called in he is sure to operate.'' Not only have
the public said this, but even physicians have been known to
suggest it, and have indeed used the equivocal expression,
the ``apotheosis of surgery,'' in connexion with the operative
treatment of a serious abdominal lesion.  But fortunately
the public have found out that the surgeon, being an honest
man, does not advise operation unless he believes that it is
necessary or, at any rate, highly advisable.  And this happy
discovery has led to much more confidence being placed in his
decision.  It has truly been said that a surgeon is a physician
who can operate, and the public have begun to realize the fact
that it is useless to try to relieve an acute abdominal lesion
by diet or drugs.  Not many years ago cases of acute, obscure
or chronic affections of the abdomen which were admitted into
hospital were sent as a matter of course into the medical
wards, and after the effect of drugs had been tried with
expectancy and failure, the services of a surgeon were called
in.  In acute cases this delay spoilt all surgical chances, and
the idea was more widely spread that surgery, after all, was
a poor handmaid to medicine.  But now things are different.
Acute or obscure abdominal cases are promptly relegated to
the surgical wards; the surgeon is at once sent for, and if
operation is thought desirable it is performed without any
delay.  The public have found that the surgeon is not a reckless
operator, but a man who can take a broad view of a case in all
its bearings.  And so it has come about that the results of
operations upon the interior of the abdomen have been improving
day by day.  And doubtless they will continue to improve.

A great impetus was given to the surgery of wounded, mortified
or diseased pieces of intestine by the introduction from
Chicago of an ingenious contrivance named, after the inventor,
Murphy's button. This consists of a short nickel-plated
tube in two pieces, which are rapidly secured in the divided
ends of the bowel, and in such a manner that when the
pieces are subsequently ``married'' the adjusted ends of
the bowel are securely fixed together and the canal rendered
practicable.  In the course of time the button loosens itself
into the interior of the bowel and comes away with the alvine
evacuation.  In many other cases the use of the button has
proved convenient and successful, as in the establishment of
a permanent communication between the stomach and the small
intestine when the ordinary gateway between these parts of
the alimentary canal is obstructed by an irremovable malignant
growth; between two parts of the small intestine so that
some obstruction may be passed; betw:en smal' and large
intestine.  The operative procedure goes by the name of
short-circuiting; it enables the contents of the bowel to get
beyond an obstruction.  In this way also a permanent working
communication can be set up between the gallbladder, or a
dilated bile-duct, and the neighbouring small intestine---the
last-named operation bears the precise but very clumsy name
of choledocoduodenostomy. By the use of Murphy's ingenious
apparatus the communication of two parts can be secured in
the shortest possible space of time, and this, in many of
the cases in which it is resorted to, is of the greatest
importance.  But there is this against the method---that
sometimes ulceration occurs around the rim of the metal button,
whilst at others the loosened metal causes annoyance in its
passage along the alimentary canal.  Some surgeons therefore
prefer to use a bobbin of decalcified bone or similar soft
material, while others rely upon direct suturing of the
parts.  The last-named method is gradually increasing in
popularity, and of course, when time and circumstances permit,
it is the ideal method of treatment.  The cause of death
in the case of intestinal obstruction is usually due to the
blood being poisoned by the absorption of the products of
decomposition of the fluid contents of the bowel above the
obstruction.  It is now the custom, therefore, for the surgeon to
complete his operation for the relief of obstruction by drawing
out a loop of the distended bowel, incising and evacuating
it, and then carefully suturing and returning it.  The surgeon
who first recognized the lethal effect of the absorption of
this stagnant fluid---or, at any rate, who first suggested the
proper method of treating it---was Lawson Tait of Birmingham,
who on the occurrence of grave symptoms after operating on
the abdomen gave small, repeated doses of Epsom salts to wash
away the harmful liquids of the bowel and to enable it at the
same time to empty itself of the gas, which, by distending the
intestines, was interfering with respiration and circulation.

Amongst still more recent improvements in abdominal surgery
may be mentioned the placing of the patient in the sitting
position as soon as practicable after the operation, and
the slow administration of a hot saline solution into the
lower bowel, or, in the more desperate cases, of injecting
pints of this ``normal saline'' fluid into the loose
tissue of the armpit.  Hot water thus administered or
injected is quickly taken into the blood, increasing its
volume, diluting its impurities and quenching the great
thirst which is so marked a symptom in this condition.

Gunshot wounds of the Abdomen.---If a revolver bullet passes
through the abdomen, the coils of intestine are likely to be
traversed by it in several places.  If the bullet be small and,
by chance, surgically clean, it is possible that the openings
may tightly close up behind it so that no leakage takes place
into the general peritoneal cavity.  If increasing collapse
suggests that serious bleeding is occurring within the abdomen,
the cavity is opened forthwith and a thorough exploration
made.  When it is uncettain lf the bowel has been traversed
or not, it is well to wait before opening the abdomen, due
preparation being made for performing that operation on the
first appearance of symptoms indicative of perforation having
occurred.  Small perforating wounds of the bowel are treated
by such suturing as the circumstances may suggest, the interior
of the abdominal cavity being rendered as free from septic
micro-organisms as possible.  It is by the malign influence of
such germs that a fatal issue is determined in the case of an
abdominal wound, whether inflicted by firearms or by a pointed
weapon.  If aseptic procedure can be promptly resorted
to and thoroughly carried out, abdominal wounds do well,
but these essentials cannot be obtained upon the field of
battle.  When after an action wounded men come pouring into
the field-hospital, the many cannot be kept waiting whilst
preparations are being made for the thorough carrying out
of a prolonged aseptic abdominal operation upon a solitary
case.  Experience in the South African war of 1899-1902 showed
that Mauser bullets could pierce coils of intestine and leave
the soldiers in such a condition that, if treated by mere
``expectancy,'' more than 50% recovered, whereas if operations
were resorted to, fatal septic peritonitis was likely to ensue.
In the close proximity of the fight, where time, assistants,
pure water, towels, lotions and other necessaries for carrying
out a thoroughly aseptic operation cannot be forthcoming,
gunshot wounds of the abdomen had best not be interfered with.

Stabs of the abdomen are serious if they have penetrated the
abdominal wall, as, at the time of injury, septic germs may
have been introduced, or the bowel may have been wounded.  In
either case a fatal inflammation of the peritoneum may be set
up.  It is inadvisable to probe a wound in order to find out
if the belly-cavity has been penetrated, as the probe itself
might carry inwards septic germs.  In case of doubt it is
better to enlarge the wound in order to determine its depth,
and to disinfect and close it if it be non-penetrating.  If,
however, the bellycavity has been opened, the neighbouring
pieces of bowel should be examined, cleansed and, if need be,
sutured.  Should there have been an escape of the contents of
the bowel the ``toilet of the peritoneum'' would be duly made,
and a drainage-tube would be left in.  If the stab had injured
a large blood-vessel either of the abdominal cavity, or of the
hiver or of some other organ, the bleeding would be arrested
by ligature or suture, and the extravasated blood sponged
out.  Before the days of antiseptic surgery, and of exploratory
abdominal operations, these cases were generally allowed
to drift to almost certain death, unrecognized and almost
untreated: at the present time a large number of them are saved.

Intussusception.---This is a terribly fatal disease of
infants and children, in which a piece of bowel slips into,
and is gripped by, the piece next below it.  Formerly it was
generally the custom to endeavour to reduce the invagination
by passing air or water up the rectum under pressure--a
speculative method of treatment which sometimes ended in a
fatal rupture of the distended bowel, and often---one might
almost say generally--failed to do what was expected of
it.  The teaching of modern surgery is that a small incision
into the abdomen and a prompt withdrawal of the invaginated
piece of bowel can be trusted to do all that, and more than,
infection can effect, without blindly risking a rupture of the
bowel.  It is certain that when the surgeon is unable to
unravel the bowel with his fingers gently applied to the parts
themselves, no speculative distension of the bowel could
have been effective.  But the outlook in these distressing
cases, even when the operation is promptly resorted to, is
extremely grave, because of the intensity of the shock which
the intussusception and resulting strangulation entail.
Still, every operation gives them by far the best chance.

Cancer of the Intestine.---With the introduction of aseptic
methods of operating, it has been found that the surgeon can
reach the bowel through the peritoneum easily and safely.
With the peritoneum opened, moreover, he can explore the
diseased bowel and deal with it as circumstances suggest.
If the cancerous mass is fairly movable the affected piece
of bowel is excised and the cut ends are spliced together,
and the continuity of the alimentary canal is permanently
re-established.  Thus in the case of cancer of the large
intestine which is not too far advanced, the surgeon expects
to be able not only to relieve the obstruction of the bowel,
but actually to cure the patient of his disease.  When the
lowest part of the bowel was found to be occupied by a cancerous
obstruction, the surgeon used formerly to secure an easy escape
for the contents of the bowel by making an opening into the
colon in the left loin.  But in recent years this operation of
lumbar colotomy has been almost entirely replaced by opening
the colon in the left groin.  This operation of iniguinal
colotomy is usually divided into two stages: a loop of the
large intestine is first drawn out through the abdominal
wound and secured by stitches, and a few days afterwards,
when it is firmly glued in place by adhesive inflammation,
it is cut across, so that subsequently the motions can no
longer find their way into the bowel below the artificial
anus.  If at the first stage of the operation symptoms of
obstruction are urgent, one of the ingenious glass tubes
with a rubber conduit, which Mr F. T. Paul has invented,
may be forthwith introduced into the distended bowel, so
that the contents may be allowed to escape without fear of
soiling the peritoneum or even the surface-wound. (E. O.*)

ABDUCTION (Lat. abductio, abducere, to lead away), a
law term denoting the forcible or fraudulent removal of a
person, limited by custom to the case where a woman is the
victim.  In the case of men or children, it has been usual
to substitute the term kidnapping (q.v.).  The old English
laws against abduction, generally contemplating its object
as the possession of an heiress and her fortune, have been
repealed by the Offences against the Person Act 1861, which
makes it felony for any one from motives of lucre to take
away or detain against her will with intent to marry or
carnally know her, &c., any woman of any age who has any
interest in any real or personal estate, or is an heiress
presumptive, or co-heiress, or presumptive next of kin to
any one having such an interest; or for any one to cause
such a woman to be married or carnally known by any other
person; or for any one with such intent to allure, take
away, or detain any such woman under the age of twenty-one,
out of the possession and against the will of her parents or
guardians.  By s. 54, forcible taking away or detention
against her will of any woman of any age with like intent is
felony.  The same act makes abduction without eyen any such
intent a misdemeanour, where an unmarried girl under the
age of sixteen is unlawfully taken out of the possession and
against the will of her parents or guardians.  In such a case
the girl's consent is immaterial, nor is it a defence that the
person charged reasonably believed that the girl was sixteen or
over.  The Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885 made still more
stringent provisions with reference to abduction by making
the procuration or attempted procuration of any virtuous
female under the age of twenty-one years a misdemeanour, as
well as the abduction of any girl under eighteen years of
age with the intent that she shall be carnally known, or the
detaining of any female against her will on any premises,
with intent to have, or that another person may have, carnal
knowledge of her.  In Scotland, where there is no statutory
adjustment, abduction is similarly dealt with by practice.

ABD-UL-AZIZ (1830-1876), sultan of Turkey, son of Sultan
Mahmud II., was born on the 9th of February 1830, and
succeeded his brother Abd-ul-Mejid in 1861.  His personal
interference in government affairs was not very marked, and
extended to little more than taking astute advantage of the
constant issue of State loans during his reign to acquire
wealth, which was squandered in building useless palaces
and in other futile ways: he is even said to have profited,
by means of ``bear'' sales, from the default on the Turkish
debt in 1875 and the consequent fall in prices.  Another
source of revenue was afforded by Ismail Pasha, the khedive
of Egypt, who paid heavily in bakshish for the firman of
1866, by which the succession to the khedivate was made
hereditary from father to son in direct line and in order
of primogeniture, as well as for the subsequent firmans of
1867, 1869 and 1872 extending the khedive's prerogatives.  It
is, however, only fair to add that the sultan was doubtless
influenced by the desire to bring about a similar change
in the succession to the Ottoman throne and to ensure the
succession after him of his eldest son, Yussuf Izz-ed-din.
Abd-ul-Aziz visited Europe in 1867, being the first Ottoman
sultan to do so, and was made a Knight of the Garter by Queen
Victoria.  In 1869 he received the visits of the emperor of
Austria, the Empress Eugenie and other foreign princes, on their
way to the opening of the Suez Canal, and King Edward VII.,
while prince of Wales, twice visited Gonstantinople during his
reign.  The mis-government and financial straits of the
country brought on the outbreak of Mussulman discontent and
fanaticism which eventually culminated in the murder of two
consuls at Salonica and in the ``Bulgarian atrocities,'' and
cost Abd-ul-Aziz his throne.  His deposition on the 30th of
May 1876 was hailed with joy throughout Turkey; a fortnight
later he was found dead in the palace where he was confined,
and trustworthy medical evidence attributed his death to
suicide.  Six children survived him: Prince Yussuf Izz-ed-din,
born 1857; Princess Salina, wife of Kurd Ismall Pasha;
Princess Nazime, wife of Khalid Pasha; Prince Abd-ul-Mejid,
born 1869; Prince Self-ed-din, born 1876; Princess Emine,
wife of Mahommed Bey; Prince Shefket, born 1872, died 1899.

ABD-UL-HAMID I.,(1725-1789), sultan of Turkey, son of Ahmed
III., succeeded his brother Mustafa III. in 1773.  Long
confinement in the palace aloof from state affairs had left
him pious, God-fearing and pacific in disposition.  At his
accession the financial straits of the treasury were such that
the usual donative could not be given to the janissaries.  War
was, however, forced on him, and less than a year after his
accession the complete defeat of the Turks at Kozluja led
to the treaty of Kuchuk Kainarji ( 21st July 1774), the most
disastrous, especially in its after effects, that Turkey
has ever been obliged to conclude. (See TURKEY.) Slight
successes in Syria and the Morea against rebellious outbreaks
there could not compensate for the loss of the Crimea, which
Russia soon showed that she meant to absorb entirely.  In
1787 war was again declared against Russia, joined in the
following year by Austria, Joseph II. being entirely won over to
Catherine, whom he accompanied in her triumohal progress in the
Crimea.  Turkey held her own against the Austrians, but in
1788 Ochakov fell to the Russians.  Four months later, on
the 7th of April 1789, the sultan died, aged sixty-four.

ABD-UL-HAMID II. (1842- ), sultan of Turkey, son of Sultan
Abd-ul-Mejid, was born on the 21st of September 1842, and
succeeded to the throne on the deposition of his brother Murad
V., on the 31st of August 1876.  He accompanied his uncle
Sultan Abd-ul-Aziz on his visit to England and France in
1867.  At his accession spectators were struck by the fearless
manner in which he rode, practically unattended, on his way
to be girt with the sword of Eyub.  He was supposed to be of
liberal principles, and the more conservative of his subjects
were for some years after his accession inclined to regard him
with suspicion as a too ardent reformer.  But the circumstances
of the country at his accession were ill adapted for liberal
developments.  Default in the public funds and an empty
treasury, the insurrection in Bosnia and the Herzegovina, the
war with Servia and Montenegro, the feeling aroused throughout
Europe by the methods adopted in stamping out the Bulgarian
rebellion, all combined to prove to the new sultan that he
could expect little aid from the Powers.  But, still clinging
to the groundless belief, for which British statesmen had, of
late at least, afforded Turkey no justification, that Great
Britain at all events would support him, he obstinately refused
to give ear to the pressing requests of the Powers that the
necessary reforms should be instituted.  The international
Conference which met at Constantinople towards the end of
1876 was, indeed, startled by the salvo of guns heralding
the promulgation of a constitution, but the demands of the
Conference were rejected, in spite of the solemn warnings
addressed to the sultan by the Powers; Midhat Pasha, the
author of the constitution, was exiled; and soon afterwards
his work was suspended, though figuring to this day on the
Statute-Book.  Early in 1877 the disastrous war with Russia
followed.  The hard terms, embodied in the treaty of San
Stefano, to which Abd-ul-Hamid was forced to consent, were
to some extent amended at Berlin, thanks in the main to
British diplomacy (see EUROPE, History); but by this
time the sultan had lost all confidence in England, and
thought that he discerned in Germany, whose supremacy was
evidenced in his eyes by her capital being selected as the
meeting-place of the Congress, the future friend of Turkey.
He hastened to employ Germans for the reorganization of his
finances and his army, and set to work in the determination to
maintain his empire in spite of the difficulties surrounding
him, to resist the encroachments of foreigners, and to take
gradually the reins of absolute power into his own hands,
being animated by a profound distrust, not unmerited, of his
ministers.  Financial embarrassments forced him to consent to
a foreign control over the Debt, and the decree of December
1881, whereby many of the revenues of the empire were handed
over to the Public Debt Administration for the benefit of the
bondholders, was a sacrifice of principle to which he could
only have consented with the greatest reluctance.  Trouble in
Egypt, where a discredited khedive had to be deposed, trouble
on the Greek frontier and in Montenegro, where the Powers were
determined that the decisions of the Berlin Congress should
be carried into effect, were more or less satisfactorily got
over.  In his attitude towards Arabi, the would-be saviour of
Egypt, Abd-ul-Hamid showed less than his usual astuteness, and
the resulting consolidation of England's hold over the country
contributed still further to his estrangement from Turkey's old
ally.  The union in 1885 of Bulgaria with Eastern Rumelia, the
severance of which had been the great triumph of the Berlin
Congress, was another blow.  Few people south of the Balkans
dreamed that Bulgaria could be anything but a Russian province,
and apprehension was entertained of the results of the union
until it was seen that Russia really and entirely disapproved of
it.  Then the best was made of it, and for some years the sultan
preserved towards Bulgaria an attitude skilfully calculated
so as to avoid running counter either to Russian or to German
wishes.  Germany's friendship was not entirely disinterested,
and had to be fostered with a railway or loan concession from
time to time, until in 1899 the great object aimed at, the
Bagdad railway, was conceded.  Meanwhile, aided by docile
instruments, the sultan had succeeded in reducing his ministers
to the position of secretaries, and in concentrating the
mhole administration of the country into his own hands at
Yildiz.  But internal dissension was not thereby lessened.
Crete was constantly in turmoil, the Greeks were dissatisfied,
and from about 1890 the Armenians began a violent agitation
with a view to obtaining the reforms promised them at
Berlin.  Minor troubles had occurred in 1892 and 1893 at
Marsovan and Tokat.  In 1894 a more serious rebellion in
the mountainous region of Sassun was ruthlessly stamped
out; the Powers insistently demanded reforms, the eventual
grant of which in the autumn of 1895 was the signal for a
series of massacres, brought on in part by the injudicious
and threatening acts of the victims, and extending over many
months and throughout Asia Minor, as well as in the capital
itself.  The reforms became more or less a dead letter.
Crete indeed profited by the grant of extended privileges,
but these did not satisfy its turbulent population, and early
in 1897 a Greek expedition salled to unite the island to
Greece.  War followed, in which Turkey was easily successful
and gained a small rectification of frontier; then .a few
months later Crete was taken over ``en depot'' by the Four
Powers---Germany and Austria not participating,---and Prince
George of Greece was appointed their mandatory.  In the next year
the sultan received the visit of the German emperor and empress.

Abd-ul-Hamid had always resisted the pressure of the European
Powers to the last moment, in order to seem to yield only
to overwhelming force, while posing as the champion of Islam
against aggressive Christendom.  The Panislamic propaganda
was encouraged; the privileges of foreigners in the Ottoman
Empire-often an obstacle to government--were curtailed; the
new railway to the Holy Places was pressed on, and emissaries
were sent to distant countries preaching Islam and the
caliph's supremacy.  This appeal to Moslem sentiment was,
however, powerless against the disaffection due to perennial
misgovernment.  In Mesopotamia and Yemen disturbance was
endemic; nearer home, a semblance of loyalty was maintained
in the army and among the Mussulman population by a system
of delation and espionage, and by wholesale arrests; while,
obsessed by terror of assassination, the sultan withdrew
himself into fortified seclusion in the palace of Yildiz.

The national humiliation of the situation in Macedonia
(q.v.), together with the resentment in the army against
the palace spies and informers, at last brought matters to a
crisis.  The remarkable revolution associated with the names
of Niazi Bey and Enver Bey, the young Turk leaders, and
the Committee of Union and Progress is described elsewhere
(see TURKEY: History); here it must suffice to say that
Abd-ul-Hamid, on learning of the threat of the Salonica troops
to march on Constantinople (July 23), at once capitulated.
On the 24th an irade announced the restoration of the
suspended constitution of 1875; next day, further irades
abolished espionage and the censorship, and ordered the
release of political prisoners.  On the 10th of December
the sultan opened the Turkish parliament with a speech
from the throne in which he said that the first parliament
had been ``temporarily dissolved until the education of
the people had been brought to a sufficiently high level
by the extension of instruction throughout the empire.''

The correct attitude of the sultan did not save him from
the suspicion of intriguing with the powerful reactionary
elements in the state, a suspicion confirmed by his attitude
towards the counter-revolution of the 13th of April, when
an insurrection of the soldiers and the Moslem populace of
the capital overthrew the committee and the ministry.  The
comittee, restored by the Salonica troops, now decided on
Abdul-Hamid's deposition, and on the 27th of April his brother
Reshid Effendi was proclaimed sultan as Mahommed V. The
ex-sultan was conveyed into dignified captivity at Salonica.

ABD-UL-MEJID (1823-.1861), sultan of Turkey, was born on
the 23rd of April 1823, and succeeded his father Mahmud II.
on the 2nd of July 1839.  Mahmud appears to have been unable
to effect the reforms he desired in the mode of educating
his children, so that his son received no better education
than that given, according to use and wont, to Turkish
princes in the harem.  When Abd-ul-Mejid succeeded to the
throne, the affairs of Turkey were in an extremely critical
state.  At the very time his father died, the news was on
its way to Constantinople that the Turkish army had been
signally defeated at Nezib by that of the rebel Egyptian
viceroy, Mehemet Ali; and the Turkish fleet was at the same
time on its way to Alexandria, where it was handed over by its
commander, Ahmed Pasha, to the same enemy, on the pretext
that the young sultan's advisers were sold to Russia.  But
through the intervention of the European Powers Mehemet Ali
was obliged to come to terms, and the Ottoman empire was saved.
(See MEHEMET ALI.) In compliance with his father's express
instructions, Abd-ul-Mejid set at once about carrying out
the reforms to which Mahmud had devoted himself.  In November
1839 was proclaimed an edict, known as the Hatt-i-sherif of
Dulhane, consolidating and enforcing these reforms, which
was supplemented at the close of the Crimean war by a similar
statute issued in February 1856.  By these enactments it was
provided that all classes of the sultan's subjects should
have security for their lives and property; that taxes should
be fairly imposed and justice impartially administered; and
that all should have full religious liberty and equal civil
rights.  The scheme met with keen opposition from the Mussulman
governing classes and the ulema, or privileged religious
teachers, and was but partially put in force, especially in
the remoter parts of the empire; and more than one conspiracy
was formed against the sultan's life on account of it.  Of
the other measures of reform promoted by Abd-ul-Mejid the more
important were---the reorganization of the army (1843-1844),
the institution of a council of public instruction (1846),
the abolition of an odious and unfairly imposed capitation
tax, the repression of slave trading, and various provisions
for the better administration of the public service and for
the advancement of commerce.  For the public history of his
times--the disturbances and insurrections in different parts of
his dominions throughout his reign, and the great war successfully
carried on against Russia by Turkey, and by England, France and
Sardinia, in the interest of Turkey(1853-1856)-- see TURKEY,
and CRIMEAN WAR. When Kossuth and others sought refuge in
Turkey, after the failure of the Hungarian rising in 1849,
the sultan was called on by Austria and Russia to surrender
them, but boldly and determinedly refused.  It is to his
credit, too, that he would not allow the conspirators against
his own life to be put to death.  He bore the character of
being a kind and honourable man, if somewhat weak and easily
led.  Against this, however, must be set down his excessive
extravagance, especially towards the end of his life.  He
died on the 25th of June 1861, and was succeeded by his
brother, Abd-ul-Aziz, as the oldest survivor of the family of
Osman.  He left several sons, of whom two, Murad V. and
Abd-ul-Hamid II., eventually succeeded to the throne.  In his
reign was begun the reckless system of foreign loans, carried
to excess in the ensuing reign, and culminating in default,
which led to the alienation of European sympathy from Turkey
and, indirectly, to the dethronement and death of Abd-ul-Aziz.

ABDUR RAHMAN KHAN, amir of Afghanistan (c. 1844-1901),
was the son of Afzul Khan, who was the eldest son of Dost
Mahomed Khan, the famous amir, by whose success in war the
Barakzai family established their dynasty in the rulership of
Afghanistan.  Before his death at Herat, 9th June 1863, Dost
Mahomed had nominated as his successor Shere Ali, his third
son, passing over the two elder brothers, Afzul Khan and Azim
Khan; and at first the new amir was quietly recognized.  But
after a few months Afzul Khan raised an insurrection in the
northern province, between the Hindu Kush mountains and the
Oxus, where he had been governing when his father died; and
then began a fierce contest for power among the sons of Dost
Mahomed, which lasted for nearly five years.  In this war,
which resembles in character, and in its striking vicissitudes,
the English War of the Roses at the end of the 15th century,
Abdur Rahman soon became distinguished for ability and daring
energy.  Although his father, Afzul Khan, who had none of
these qualities, came to terms with the Amir Shere Ali, the
son's behaviour in the northern province soon excited the
amir's suspicion, and Abdur Rahman: when he was summoned to
Kabul, fled across the Oxus into Bokhara.  Shere Ali threw
Afzul Khan into prison, and a serious revolt followed in
south &fghanistan; but the amir had scarcely suppressed it by
winning a desperate battle, when Abdur Rahman's reapearance
in the north was a signal for a mutiny of the troops
stationed in those parts and a gathering of armed bands to his
standard.  After some delay and desultory fighting, he and
his uncle, Azim Khan, occupied Kabul (March 1866).  The amir
Shere All marched up against them from Kandahar; but in the
battle that ensued at Sheikhabad on 10th May he was deserted
by a large body of his troops, and after his signal defeat
Abdur Rahman released his father, Afzul Elian, from prison
in Ghazni, and installed him upon the throne as amir of
Afghanistan.  Notwithstanding the new amir's incapacity, and
some jealousy between the real leaders, Abdur Rahman and his
uncle, they again routed Shere All's forces, and occupied
Kandahar in 1867; and when at the end of that year Afzul Khan
died, Azim Khan succeeded to the rulership, with Abdur Rahman
as his governor in the northern province.  But towards the end
of 1868 Shere Ali's return, and a general rising in his favour,
resulting in their defeat at Tinah Khan on the 3rd of January
1869, forced them both to seek refuge in Persia, whence Abdur
Rahman proceeded afterwards to place himself under Russian
protection at Samarkand.  Azim died in Persia in October 1869.

This brief account of the conspicuous part taken by Abdur
Rahman in an eventful war, at the beginning of which he was
not more than twenty years old, has been given to show the
rough school that brought out his qualities of resource and
fortitude, and the political capacity needed for rulership in
Afghanistan.  He lived in exile for eleven years, until on the
death, in 1879, of Shere Ali, who had retired from Kabul when the
British armies entered Afghanistan, the Russian governorgeneral
at Tashkent sent for Abdur Rahman, and pressed him to try his
fortunes once more across the Oxus.  In March 1880 a report
reached India that he was in northern Afghanistan; and the
governor-general, Lord Lytton, opened communications with him
to the effect that the British government were prepared to
withdraw their troops, and to recognize Abdur Rahman as amir of
Afghanistan, with the exception of Kandahar and some districts
adjacent.  After some negotiations, an interview took place
between him and Mr (afterwards Sir) Lepel Griffin, the
diplomatic representative at Kabub of the Indian government,
who described Abdur Rahman as a man of middle height, with
an exceedingly intelligent face and frank and courteous
manners, shrewd and able in conversation on the business in
hand.  At the durbar on the 22nd of July 1880, Abbdur Rahman
was officially recognized as amir, granted assistance in
arms and money, and promised, in case of unprovoked foreign
aggression, such further aid as might be necessary to repel
it, provided that he followed British advice in regard to
his external relations.  The evacuation of Afghanistan was
settled on the terms proposed, and in 1881 the British troops
also made over Kandahar to the new amir; but Ayub Khan,
one of Shere Ali's sons, marched upon that city from Herat,
defeated Abdur Rahman's troops, and occupied the place in
July.  This serious reverse roused the amir, who had not
at first displayed much activity.  He led a force from
Kabul, met Ayub's army close to Kandahar, and the complete
victory which he there won forced Ayub Khan to fly into
Persia.  From that time Abdur Rahman was fairly seated on the
throne at Kabul, and in the course of the next few years he
consolidated his dominion over all Afghanistan, suppressing
insurrections by a sharp and relentless use of his despotic
authority.  Against the severity of his measures the powerful
Ghilzai tribe revolted, and were crushed by the end of 1887.
In that year Ayub Khan made a,fruitless inroad from Persia;
and in 1888 the amir's cousin, Ishak Khan, rebelled against
him in the north; but these two enterprises came to nothing.

In 1885, at the moment when (see AFGHANISTAN) the amir
was in conference with the British viceroy, Lord Dufferin,
in India, the news came of a collision between Russian
and Afghan troops at Panjdeh, over a disputed point in the
demarcation of the north-western frontier of Afghanistan.
Abdur Rahman's attitude at this critical juncture is a good
example of his political sagacity.  To one who had been a man
of war from his youth up, who had won and lost many fights,
the rout of a detachment and the forcible seizure of some
debateable frontier lands was an untoward incident; but it
was no sufficent reason for calling upon the British, although
they had guaranteed his territory's integrity, to vindicate
his rights by hostilities which would certainly bring upon
him a Russian invasion from the north, and would compel his
British allies to throw an army into Afghanistan from the
south-east.  His interest lay in keeping powerful neighbours,
whether friends or foes, outside his kingdom.  He knew this
to be the only policy that would be supported by the Afghan
nation; and although for some time a rupture with Russia seemed
imminent, while the Indian government made ready for that
contingency, the amir's reserved and circumspect tone in the
consultations with him helped to turn the balance between
peace and war, and substantially conduced towards a pacific
solution.  Abdur Rahman left on those who met him in India
the impression of a clear-headed man.of action, with great
self-reliance and hardihood, not without indications of the
implacable severity that too often marked his administration.
His investment with the insignia of the highest grade of the
Order of the Star of India appeared to give him much pleasure.

From the end of 1888 the amir passed eighteen months in
his northern provinces bordering upon the Oxus, where
he was engaged in pacifying the country that had been
disturbed by revolts, and in punishing with a heavy hand
all who were known or suspected to have taken any part in
rebellion.  Shortly afterwards (1892) he succeeded in
finally beating down the resistance of the Hazara tribe, who
vainly attempted to defend their immemorial independence,
within their highlands, of the central authority at Kabul.

In 1893 Sir Henry Durand was deputed to Kabul by the government
of India for the purpose of settling an exchange of territory
required bu the demarcation of the boundary between north-eastern
Afghanistan and the Russian possessions, and in order to discuss
with the amir other pending questions.  The amir showed his
usual ability in diplomatic argument, his tenacity where his
own views or claims were in debate, with a sure underlying
insight into the real situation.  The territorial exchanges
were amicably agreed upon; the relations between the Indian and
Afghan governments, as previously arranged, were confirmed; and
an understanding was reached upon the important and difficult
subject of the border line of Afghanistan on the east, towards
India.  In 1895 the amir found himself unable, by reason of
ill-health, to accept an invitation from Queen Victoria to visit
England; hut his second son Nasrullah Khan went in his stead.

Abdur Rahman died on the 1st of October 1901, being succeeded
by his son Habibullah.  He had defeated all enterprises by
rivals against his throne; he had broken down the power of
local chiefs, and tamed the refractory tribes; so that his
orders were irresistible throughout the whole dominion.
His government was a military despotism resting upon a
well-appointed army; it was administered through officials
absolutely subservient to an inflexible will and controlled
by a widespread system of espionage; while the exercise
of his personal authority was too often stained by acts of
unnecessary cruelty.  He held open courts for the receipt
of petitioners and the dispensation of justice; and in the
disposal of business he was indefatigable.  He succeeded in
imposing an organized government upon the fiercest and most
unruly population in Asia; he availed himself of European
inventions for strengthening his armament, while he sternly
set his face against all innovations which, like railways
and telegraphs, might give Europeans a foothold within his
country.  His adventurous life, his forcible character,
the position of his state as a barrier between the Indian
and the Russian empires, and the skill with which he held
the balance in dealing with them, combined to make him a
prominent figure in contemporary Asiatic politics and will
mark his reign as an epoch in the history of Afghanistan.

The amir received an annual subsidy from the British
government of 18-1/2 lakhs of rupees.  He was allowed to
import munitions of War. In 1896 he adopted the title of
Tia-ul-hlillat-ud Din (Light of the nation and religion);
and his zeal for the cause of Islam induced him to publish
treatises on Jehad.  His eldest son Habibullah Khan, with
his brother Nasrullah Khan, was born at Samarkand.  His
youngest son, Mahomed Omar Jan, was born in 1889 of an Afghan
mother, connected by descent with the Barakzai family.

See also S. Wheeler, F.R.G.S., The Amir Abdur Rahman (London,
1895); The Life of Abdur Rahman, Amir of Afghanistan, G.C.B.,
G.C.S.L, edited by Mir Munshi, Sultan Mahommed Khan (2 vols.,
London, 1900); At the Court of the Amir, by J. A. Grey (1895).
                                            (A. C. L.)
ABECEDARIANS, a nickname given to certain extreme
Anabaptists (q.v.), who regarded the teaching of the Holy
Spirit as all that was necessary, and so despised all human
learning and even the power of reading the written word.

A BECKETT, GILBERT ARBOTT (1811-1856), English writer, was
born in north London on the 9th of January 1811.  He belonged
to a family claiming descent from the father of St Thomas
Becket.  His elder brother, Sir William a Beckett (1806-1869),
became chief justice of Victoria (Australia).  Gilbert Abbott
a Beckett was educated at Westminster school, and was called
to the bar at Gray's Inn in 1841.  He edited Figaro in
London, and was one of the original staff of Punch and
a contributor all his life.  He was an active journalist on
The Times and The Morning Herald, contributed a series
of light articles to The Illustrated London News, conducted
in 1846 The Almanack of the Month and found time to produce
some fifty or sixty plays, among them dramatized versions of
Dickens's shorter stories in collaboration with Mark Lemon.
As poor-law commissioner he presented a valuable report to the
home secretary regarding scandals in connexion with the Andover
Union, and in 1849 he became a metropolitan pouce magistrate.
He died at Boulogne on the 30th of August 1856 of typhus fever.

His eldest son GILBERT ARTHUR A BECKETT (1837-1891) was born
at Hammersmith on the 7th of April 1837.  He went up to Christ
Church, Oxford, as a Westminster scholar in 1855, graduating in
1860.  He was entered at Lincoln's Inn, but gave his attention
chiefly to the drama, producing Diamonds and Hearts at
the Haymarket in 1867, which was followed by other light
comedies.  His pieces include numerous burlesques and
pantomimes, the libretti of Savonarola (Hamburg, 1884) and
of The Canterbury Pilgrims (Drury Lane, 1884) for the music
of Dr (afterwards Sir) C. V. Stanford. The Happy Land (Court
Theatre, 1873), a political burlesque of W. S. Gilbert's Wicked
World, was written in collaboration with F. L. Tomline.
For the last ten years of his life he was on the regular staff
of Punch. His health was seriously affected in 1889 by the
death of his only son, and he died on the 15th of October 1891.

A younger son, ARTHUR WILLIAM A BECKETT (1844--1909), a
well-known journalist and man of letters, was also on the
staff of Punch from 1874 to 1902, and gave an account of his
father and his own reminiscences in The A Becketts of Punch
(1903).  He died in London on the 14th of January 1909.

See also M. H. Spielmann, The History of Punch (1895).

ABEDNEGO, the name given in Babylon to Azariah, one of
the companions of Daniel (Dan. i. 7, &c.).  It is probably a
corruption, perhaps deliberate, of Abednebo, ``servant of
Nebo,'' though G. Hoffmann thinks that the original form was
Abednergo, for Abednergal, ``servant of the god Nergal.'' C.
H. Toy compares Barnebo, ``son of Nebo''; of which he regards
Barnabas as a slightly disguised form (Jewish Encyclopaedia).

ABEKEN, HEINRICH (1809-1872), German theologian and
Prussian official, was born at Berlin on the 8th of August
1809.  He studied theology at Berlin and in 1834 became
chaplain to the Prussian embassy in Rome.  In 1841 he visited
England, being commissioned by King Frederick William IV.
to make arrangements for the establishment of the Protestant
bishopric of Jerusalem.  In 1848 he received an appointment
in the Prussian ministry for foreign affairs, and in 1853
was promoted to be privy councillor of legation (Geheimer
Legationsrath).  He was much employed by Bismarck in the
writing of official despatches, and stood high in the favour
of King William, whom he often accompanied on his journeys
as representative of the foreign office.  He was present with
the king during the campaigns of 1866 and 1870-71.  In 1851 he
published anonymously Babylon unnd Jerusalem, a slashing
criticism of the views of the Countess von Hahn-Hahn (q.v.).

See Heinrich Abeken, ein schlichtes Leben in bewegter Zeit
(Berlin, 1898), by his widow.  This is valuable by reason
of the letters written from the Prussian headquarters.

ABEL (Hebrew for breath), the second son of Adam, slain
by Cain, his elder brother (Gen. iv. 1-16).  The narrative
in Genesis which tells us that ``the Lord had respect unto
Abel and to his offering, but unto Cain and to his offering
he had not respect,'' is supplemented by the statement of the
New Testament, that ``by faith Abel offered unto God a more
excellent sacrifice than Cain'' (Heb. xi. 4), and that Cain
slew Abel ``because his own works were evil and his brother's
righteous'' (1 John iii. 12). See further under CAIN.  The
name has been identified with the Assyrian ablu, ``son,'' but
this is far from certain.  It more probably means ``herdsman''
(cf. the name Jabal), and a distinction is drawn between the
pastoral Abel and the agriculturist Cain.  If Cain is the eponym
of the Kenites it is quite possible that Abel was originally
a South Judaean demigod or hero; on this, see Winckler,
Gesch.  Israels, ii. p. 189; E. Meyer, Israelitein, p.
395. A sect of Abelitae, who seem to have lived in North
Africa, is mentioned by Augustine (De Haeresibus, lxxxvi.).

ABEL, SIR FREDERICK AUGUSTUS, BART. (1827-1902), English
chemist, was born in London on the 17th of July 1827.  After
studying chemistry for six years under A. W. von Hofmann at the
Royal College of Chemistry (established in London in 1845), he
became professor of chemistry at the Royal Military Academy in
1851, and three years later was appointed chemist to the War
Department and chemical referee to the government.  During
his tenure of this office, which lasted until 1888, he carried
out a large amount of work in connexion with the chemistry of
explosives.  One of the most important of his investigations
had to do with the manufacture of guncotton, and he developed
a process, consisting essentially of reducing the nitrated
cotton to fine pulp, which enabled it to be prepared with
practically no danger and at the same time yielded the
product in a form that increased its usefulness.  This work
to an important extent prepared the way for the ``smokeless
powders'' which came into general use towards the end of the
19th century; cordite, the particular form adopted by the
British government in 1891, was invented jointly by him and
Professor James Dewar.  Our knowledge of the explosion of
ordinary black powder was also greatly added to by him, and
in conjunction with Sir Andrew Noble he carried out one of
the most complete inquiries on record into its behaviour when
fired.  The invention of the apparatus, legalized in 1879, for
the determination of the flash-point of petroleum, was another
piece of work which fell to him by virtue of his official
position.  His first instrument, the open-test apparatus, was
prescribed by the act of 1868, but, being found to possess
certain defects, it was superseded in 1879 by the Abel close-test
instrument (see PETROLEUM).  In electricity Abel studied
the construction of electrical fuses and other applications
of electricity to warlike purposes, and his work on problems
of steel manufacture won him in 1897 the Bessemer medal of the
Iron and Steel Institute, of which from 1891 to 1893 he was
president.  He was president of the Institution of Electrical
Engineers (then the Society of Telegraph Engineers) in
1877.  He became a member of the Royal Society in 1860,
and received a royal medal in 1887.  He took an important
part in the work of the Inventions Exhibition (London) in
1885, and in 1887 became organizing secretary and first
director of the Imperial Institute, a position he held till
his death, which occurred in London on the 6th of September
1902.  He was knighted in 1891, and created a baronet in 1893.

Among his books were--Handbook of Chemistry (with C. L.
Bloxam), Modern History of Gunpowder (1866), Gun-cotton
(1866), On Explosive Agents (1872), Researches in
Explosives (1875), and Electricity applied to Explosive
Purposes (1884).  He also wrote several important articles
in the ninth edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica.

ABEL, KARL FRIEDRICH (1725-1787), German musician, was
born in Kothen in 1725, and died on the 20th of June 1787 in
London.  He was a great player on the viola da gamba,
and composed much music of importance in its day for that
instrument.  He studied under Johann Sebastian Bach at
the Leipzig Thomasschule; played for ten years (1748-1758)
under A. Hasse in the band formed at Dresden by the elector
of Saxony; and then, going to England, became (in 1759)
chamber-musician to Queen Charlotte.  He gave a concert
of his own compositions in London, performing on various
instruments, one of which, the pentachord, was newly
invented.  In 1762 Johann Christian Bach, the eleventh son
of Sebastian, came to London, and the friendship between
him and Abel led, in 1764 or 1765, to the establishment of
the famous concerts subsequently known as the Bach and Abel
concerts.  For ten years these were organized by Mrs Comelys,
whose enterprises were then the height of fashion.  In 1775
the concerts became independent of her, and were continued
by Abel unsuccessfully for a year after Bach's death in
1782.  At them the works of Haydn were first produced in
England.  After the failure of his concert undertakings
Abel still remained in great request as a player on various
instruments new and old, but he took to drink and thereby
hastened his death.  He was a man of striking presence, of whom
several fine portraits, including two by Gainsborough, exist.

ABEL, NIELS HENRIK (1802-1829), Norwegian mathematician,
was born at Findoe on the 25th of August 1802.  In 1815 he
entered the cathedral school at Christiania, and three years
later he gave proof of his mathematical genius by his brilliant
solutions of the original problems proposed by B. Holmboe.
About this time, his father, a poor Protestant minister,
died, and the family was left in straitened circumstances;
but a small pension from the state allowed Abel to enter
Christiania University in 1821.  His first notable work was a
proof of the impossibility of solving the quintic equation by
radicals.  This investigation was first published in 1824
and in abstruse and difficult form, and afterwards (1826)
more elaborately in the first volume of Crelle's Journal.
Further state aid enabled him to visit Germany and France in
1825, and having visited the astronomer Heinrich Schumacher
(178-1850) at Hamburg, he spent six months in Berlin, where
he became intimate with August Leopold Crelle, who was then
about to publish his mathematical journal.  This project
was warmly encouraged by Abel, who contributed much to the
success of the venture.  From Berlin he passed to Freiberg,
and here he made his brilliant researches in the theory of
functions, elliptic, hyperelliotic and a new class known as
Abelians being particularly studied.  In 1826 he moved to
Paris, and during a ten months' stay he met the leading
mathematicians of France; but he was little appreciated, for
his work was scarcely known, and his modesty restrained him
from proclaiming his researches.  Pecuniary embarrassments,
from which he had never been free, finally compelled him
to abandon his tour, and on his return to Norway he taught
for some time at Christiania.  In 1829 Crelle obtained a
post for him at Berlin, but the offer did not reach Norway
until after his death near Arendal on the 6th of April.

The early death of this talented mathematician, of whom
Legendre said ``quelle tete celle du jeune Norvegien!'',
cut short a career of extraordinary brilliance and promise.
Under Abel's guidance, the prevailing obscurities of analysis
began to be cleared, new fields were entered upon and the
study of functions so advanced as to provide mathematicians
with numerous ramifications along which progress could be
made.  His works, the greater part of which originally
appeared in Crelle's Journal, were edited by Holmbor and
published in 1839 by the Swedish government, and a more
complete edition by L. Sylow and S. Lie was published in 1881.

For further details of his mathematical investigations see the
articles GROUPS, THEORY OF, and FUNCTIONS OF COMPLEX VARIABLES.

See C. A. Bjerknes, Niels Henrik Abel: Tableau de sa
vie et son action scientifique (Paris, 1885); Lucas
de Peslouan, Niels Henrik Abel (Paris, 1906).

ABEL (better ABELL), THOMAS (d. 1540), an English priest
who was martyred during the reign of Henry VIII.  The place
and date of his birth are unknown.  He was educated at Oxford
and entered the service of Queen Catherine some time before
1528, when he was sent by her to the emperor Charles V. on a
mission relating to the proposed divorce.  On his return he
was presented by Catherine to the living of Bradwell, in Essex,
and remained to the last a staunch supporter of the unfortunate
queen.  In 1533, he published his Invicta Veritas (with
the fictitious pressmark of Luneberge, to avoid suspicion),
which contained an answer to the numerous tracts supporting
Henry's ecclesiastical claims.  After an imprisonment of more
than six years, Abel was sentenced to death for denying the
royal supremacy in the church, and was executed at Smithfield
on the 30th of July 1540.  There is still to be seen on the
wall of his prison in the Tower the symbol of a bell with
an A upon it and the name Thomas above, winch he carved
during his confinement.  He was beatified by Pope Leo XIII.

See J. Gillow's Bibl.  Dictionary of Eng. Catholics, vol. i.;
Calendar of State Papers of Henry VIII., vols. iv.-vii. passim.

ABELARD, PETER (1079-1142), scholastic philosopher, was born
at Pallet (Palais), not far from Nantes, in 1079.  He was the
eldest son of a noble Breton house.  The name Abaelardus
(also written Abailardus, Abaielardus, and in many other
ways) is said to be a corruption of Habelardus, substituted
by himself for a nickname Bajolardus given to him when a
student.  As a boy, he showed an extraordinary quickness of
apprehension, and, choosing a learned life instead of the
knightly career natural to a youth of his birth, early became
an adept in the art of dialectic, under which name philosophy,
meaning at that time chiefly the logic of Aristotle transmitted
through Latin channels, was the great subject of liberal
study in the episcopal schools.  Roscellinus, the famous
canon of Compiegne, is mentioned by himself as his teacher;
but whether he heard this champion of extreme Nominalism in
early youth, when he wandered about from school to school
for instruction and exercise, or some years later, after he
had already begun to teach for himself, remains uncertain.
His wanderings finally brought him to Paris, still under
the age of twenty.  There, in the great cathedral school of
Notre-Dame, he sat for a while under the teaching of William
of Champeaux, the disciple of St Anselm and most advanced of
Realists, but, presently stepping forward, he overcame the
master in discussion, and thus began a long duel that issued
in the downfall of the philosophic theory of Realism, till
then dominant in the early Middle Age. First, in the teeth
of opposition from the metropolitan teacher, while yet only
twenty-two, he proceeded to set up a school of hs own at
Melun, whence, for more direct competition, he removed to
Corbeil, nearer Paris.  The success of his teaching was
signal, though for a time he had to quit the field, the
strain proving too great for his physical strength.  On his
return, after 1108, he found William lecturing no longer at
Notre-Dame, but in a monastic retreat outside the city, and
there battle was again joined between them.  Forcing upon
the Realist a material change of doctrine, he was once more
victorious, and thenceforth he stood supreme.  His discomfited
rival still had power to keep him from lecturing in Paris, hut
soon failed in this last effort also.  From Melun, where he
had resumed teaching, Abelard passed to the capital, and set
up his school on the heights of St Genevieve, looking over
Notre-Dame.  From his success in dialectic, he next turned to
theology and attended the lectures of Anselm at Laon.  His triumph
over the theologian was complete; the pupil was able to give
lectures, without previous training or special study, which
were acknowledged superior to those of the master.  Abelard
was now at the height of hs fame.  He stepped into the chair at
Notre-Dame, being also nominated canon, about the year 1115.

Few teachers ever held such sway as Abelard now did for a
time.  Distinguished in figure and manners, he was seen
surrounded by crowds--it is said thousands of students,
drawn from all countries by the fame of hs teaching, in which
acuteness of thought was relieved by simplicity and grace of
exposition.  Enriched by the offerings of his pupils, and
feasted with universal admiration, he came, as he says,
to think himself the only philosopher standing in the
world.  But a change in his fortunes was at hand.  In his
devotion to science, he had hitherto lived a very regular
life, varied only by the excitement of conflict: now, at
the height of his fame, other passions began to stir within
him.  There lived at that time, within the precincts of
Notre-Dame, under the care of her uncle, the canon Fulbert, a
young girl named Heloise, of noble extraction, and born about
1101.  Fair, but still more remarkable for her knowledge,
which extended beyond Latin, it is said, to Greek and Hebrew,
she awoke a feeling of love in the breast of Abelard; and
with intent to win her, he sought and gained a footing in
Fulbert's house as a regular inmate.  Becoming also tutor to
the maiden, he used the unlimited power which he thus obtained
over her for the purpose of seduction, though not without
cherishing a real affection which she returned in unparalleled
devotion.  Their relation interfering with his public work, and
being, moreover, ostentatiously sung by himself, soon became
known to all the world except the too-confiding Fulbert; and,
when at last it could not escape even his vision, they were
separated only to meet in secret.  Thereupon Heloise found
herself pregnant, and was carried off by her lover to Brittany,
where she gave birth to a son.  To appease her furious uncle,
Abelard now proposed a marriage, under the condition that it
should be kept secret, in order not to mar his prospects of
advancement in the church; but of marriage, whether public
or secret, Heloise would hear nothing.  She appealed to him
not to sacrifice for her the independence of his life, nor
did she finally yield to the arrangement without the darkest
forebodings, only too soon to be reallzed.  The secret of
the marriage was not kept by Fulbert; and when Heloise, true
to her singular purpose, boldly denied it, life was made so
unsupportable to her that she sought refuge in the convent of
Argenteuil.  Immediately Fulbert, believing that her husband,
who aided in the flight, designed to be rid of her, coinceived
a dire revenge.  He and some others broke into Abelard's
chamber by night, and perpetrated on him the most brutal
mutilation.  Thus cast down from his pinnacle of greatness
into an abyss of shame and misery, there was left to the
brilliant master only the life of a monk.  The priesthood
and ecclesiastical office were canonically closed to him.
Heloise, not yet twenty, consummated her work of self-sacrifice
at the call of his jealous love, and took the veil.

It was in the abbey of St Denis that Abelard, now aged
forty, sought to bury himself with his woes out of sight.
Finding, however, in the cloister neither calm nor solitude,
and having gradually turned again to study, he yielded after
a year to urgent entreaties from without and within, and
went forth to reopen his school at the priory of Maisonceile
(1120).  His lectures, now framed in a devotional spirit, were
heard again by crowds of students, and all his old influence
seemed to have returned; but old enmities were revived
also, against which he was no longer able as before to make
head.  No sooner had he put in writing his theological
lectures (apparently the Introductio and Theolo giam
that has come down to us), than his adversaries fell foul of
his rationalistic interpretation of the Trinitarian dogma.
Charging him with the heresy of Sabellius in a provincial
synod held at Soissons in 1121, they procured by irregular
practices a condemnation of his teaching, whereby he was made
to throw his book into the flames and then was shut up in
the convent of St Medard at Soissons.  After the other, it
was the bitterest possible experience that could befall him,
nor, in the state of mental desolation into which it plunged
him, could he find any comfort from being soon again set free.
The life in his own monastery proved no more congenial than
formerly.  For this Abelard himself was partly responsible.
He took a sort of malicious pleasure in irritating the monks.
Quasijocando, he cited Bede to prove that Dionysius the
Areopagite had been bishop of Corinth, while they relied upon
the statement of the abbot Hilduin that he had been bishop of
Athens.  When this historical heresy led to the inevitable
persecution, Abelard wrote a letter to the abbot Adam in
which he preferred to the authority of Bede that of Eusebius'
Historia Ecelesiastica and St Jerome, according to whom
Dionysius, bishop of Corinth, was distinct from Dionysius
the Areopagite, bishop of Athens and founder of the abbey,
though, in deference to Bede, he suggested that the Areopagite
might also have beeit bishop of Corinth.  Life in the
monastery was intolerable for such a troublesome spirit, and
Abelard, who had once attempted to escape the persecution
he had called forth by flight to a monastery at Provins,
was finally allowed to withdraw.  In a desert place near
Nogent-sur-Seine, he built himself a cabin of stubble and
reeds, and turned hermit.  But there fortune came back to him
with a new surprise.  His retreat becoming known, students
flocked from Paris, and covered the wilderness around him
with their tents and huts.  When he began to teach again he
found consolation, and in gratitude he consecrated the new
oratory they built for him by the name of the Paraclete.

Upon the return of new dangers, or at least of fears, Abelard
left the Paraclete to make trial of another refuge, accepting
an invitation to preside over the abbey of St Gildas-de-Rhuys,
on the far-off shore of Lower Brittany.  It proved a wretched
exchange.  The region was inhospitable, the domain a prey to
lawless exaction, the house itself savage and disorderly.
Yet for nearly ten years he continued to struggle with fate
before he fled from his charge, yielding in the end only under
peru of violent death.  The misery of those years was not,
however, unrelieved; for he had been able, on the breaking
up of Heloise's convent at Argenteuil, to establish her as
head of a new religious house at the deserted Paraclete, and
in the capacity of spiritual director he often was called to
revisit the spot thus made doubly dear to him.  All this time
Heloise had lived amid universal esteem for her knowledge and
character, uttering no word under the doom that had fallen upon
her youth; hut now, at last, the occasion came for expressing
all the pent-up emotions of her soul.  Living on for some time
apart (we do not know exactly where), after his flight from St
Gildas, Abelard wrote, among other things, his famous Historia
Calamitatum, and thus moved her to peu her first Letter,
which remains an unsurpassed utterance of human passion and
womanly devotion; the first being followed by the two other
Letters, in which she finally accepted the part of resignation
which, now as a brother to a sister, Abelard commended to
her.  He not long after was seen once more upon the field
of his early triumphs lecturing on Mount St Genevieve in
1136 (when he was heard by John of Salisbury), but it was
only for a brief space: no new triumph, but a last great
trial, awaited him in the few years to come of his chequered
life.  As far back as the Paraclete days, he had counted
as chief among his foes Bernard of Clairvaux, in whom was
incarnated the principle of fervent and unhesitating faith,
from which rational inquiry like his was sheer revolt, and
now this uncompromising spirit was moving, at the instance of
others, to crush the growing evil in the person of the boldest
offender.  After preliminary negotiations, in which Bernard
was roused by Abelard's steadfastness to put forth all his
strength, a council met at Sens (1141), before which Abelard,
formally arraigned upon a number of heretical charges, was
prepared to plead his cause.  When, however, Bernard, not without
foregone terror in the prospect of meeting the redoubtable
dialectician, had opened the case, suddenlly Abelard appealed to
Rome.  The stroke availed him nothing; for Bernard, who had
power, notwithstanding, to get a condemnation passed at the
council, did not rest a moment till a second condemnation was
procured at Rome in the following year.  Meanwhile, on his way
thither to urge his plea in person, Abelard had broken down
at the abbey of Cluny, and there, an utterly fallen man, with
spirit of the humblest, and only not bereft of his intellectual
force, he lingered but a few months before the approach of
death.  Removed by friendly hands, for the relief of his
sufferings, to the priory of St Marcel, near Chalon-sur-Saone,
he died on the 21st of April 1142.  First buried at St Marcel,
his remains soon after were carried off in secrecy to the
Paraclete, and given over to the loving care of Heloise, who
in time came herself to rest beside them (1164).  The bones
of the pair were shifted more than once afterwards, but they
were marvellously preserved even through the vicissitudes
of the French Revolution, and now they lie united in the
well-known tomb in the cemetery of Pere-la-Chaise at Paris.

Great as was the influence exerted by Abelard on the minds of
his contemporaries and the course of medieval thought, he has
been little known in modern times but for his connexion with
Heloise.  Indeed, it was not till the 19th century, when Cousin
in 1836 issued the collection entitled Ouvrages inedits
d'Abelard, that his philosophical performance could be judged
at first hand; of his strictly philosophical works only one,
the ethical treatise Scito te ipsum, having been published
earlier, namely, in 1721.  Cousin's collection, besides giving
extracts from the theological work Sic et Non (an assemblage
of opposite opinions on doctrinal points, culled from the
Fathers as a basis for discussion, the main interest in which
lles in the fact that there is no attempt to reconcile the
different opinions), includes the Dialectica, commentaries
on logical works of Aristotle, Porphyry and Boothius, and a
fragment, De Generibus et Speciebus.  The last-named
work, and also the psychological treatise De Inteilectibus,
published apart by Cousin (in Fragmens Philosophiques,
vol. ii.), are now considered upon internal evidence not to
be hy Abelard himself, but only to have sprung out of his
school.  A genuine work, the Glossulae super Porphyrium,
from which Charles de Remusat, in his classical monograph
Abelard (1845), has given extracts, remains in manuscript.

The general importance of Abelard lles in his having fixed
more decisively than any one before him the scholastic manner
of philosophizing, with its object of giving a formally
rational expression to the received ecclesiastical doctrine
. However his own particular interpretations may have been
condemned, they were conceived in essentially the same spirit
as the general scheme of thought afterwards elaborated in
the 13th century with approval from the heads of the church.
Through him was prepared in the Middle Age the ascendancy
of the philosophical authority of Aristotle, which became
firmly established in the half-century after his death, when
first the completed Organon, and gradually ail the other
works of the Greek thinker, came to be known in the schools:
before his time it was rather upon the authority of Plato
that the prevailing Realism sought to lean.  As regards his
so-called Conceptualism and his attitude to the question of
Universals, see SCHOLASTICISM.  Outside of his dialectic,
it was in ethics that Abelard showed greatest activity of
philosophical thought; laying very particular stress upon
the subjective intention as determining, if not the moral
character, at least the moral value, of human action.  His
thought in this direction, wherein he anticipated something
of modern speculation, is the more remarkable because his
scholastic successors accomplished least in the field of
morals, hardly venturing to bring the principles and rules of
conduct under pure philosophical discussion, even after the
great ethical inquiries of AAstotle became fully known to them.

BIBLIOGRAPHY --Abelard's own works remain the best sources
for his life, especially his Historia Culamitatum, an
autobiography, and the correspondence with Heloise.  The
literature on Abelard is extensive, but consists principally
of monographs on different aspects of his philosophy.
Charles de Remusat's Abelard (2 vols., 1845) remains an
authority; it must be distinguished from his drama Abelard
(1877), which is an attempt to give a picture of medieval
life.  McCabe's life of Abelard is written closely from
the sources. eee also the valuable analysis by Nitsch
in the article ``Abalard'' There is a comprehensive
bibliograohy in U. Chevalier, Repertoire des sources
hist. du moyen age, s. ``Abailard.'' (G. C. R.; J. T. S.*)

ABELIN, JOHANN PHILIPP, an early 16th-century German
chronicler, was born, probably, at Strasburg, and died there
between the years 1634 and 1637.  He wrote numerous histories
over the pseudonyms of Philipp Arlanibaus, Abeleus and Johann
Eudwighottfaed or Gotofredus, his earliest works of importance
being his history of the German wars of Gustavus Adolphus,
entitled Arma Suecica (pub. 1631-1634, in 12 parts), and the
Inventarium Sueciae (1632)---both compilations from existing
records.  His best known work is the Theatrum Europaeum, a
series of chronicles of the chief events in the history of the
world down to 1619.  He was himself responsible for the first two
volumes.  It was continued by various writers and grew to
twenty-one volumes (Frankf. 1633-1738).  The chief interest
of the work is, however, its illustration by the beautiful
copperplate engravings of Matthaus Meriah (1593-1650).  Abelin
also wrote a history of the antipodes, Historia Antipodum
(posthumously pub.  Frankf. 1655), and a history of India.

See G. Droysen, Arlanibaeus, Godofredus, Abelinus (Berlin,
1864); and notice in Allgemeine Deutsche Biographic.

ABENCERRAGES, a family or faction that is said to have held a
prominent position in the Moorish kingdom of Granada in the 15th
century.  The name appears to have been derived from the Yussuf
ben-Serragh, the head of the tribe in the time of Mahommed
VII., who did that sovereign good service in his struggles
to retain the crown of which he was three times deprived.
Nothing is known of the family with certainty; but the name
is familiar from the interesting romance of Gines Perez de
Hita, Guerras civiles de Granada, which celebrates the feuds
of the Abencerrages and the rival family of the Zegris, and
the cruel treatment to which the former were subjected.  J.
P. de Florian's Gonsalve de Cordoue and Chateaubriand's Le
dernier des Abencerrages are imitations of Perez de Hita's
work.  The hall of the Abencerrages in the Alhambra takes its
name from being the reputed scene of the massacre of the family.

ABENDANA, the name of two Jewish theologians. (1) JACOB
(1630-i695), rabbi (Hakham) of the Spanish Jews in London
from 1680.  Like his brother Isaac, Jacob Abendana had
a circle of Christian friends, and his reputation led to
the appreciation of Jewish scholarship by modern Christian
theologians. (2) ISAAC (c. 1650-1710), his brother,
taught Hebrew at Cambridge and afterwards at Oxford.  He
compiled a Jewish Calendar and wrote Discourses on the
Ecclesiastical and Civil Polity of the Jews (1706).

ABENEZRA (IBN EZRA), or, to give him his full name,
ABRAHAM BEN MEIR IBN Ezra (1092 or 1093-1167), one of the
most distinguished Jewish men of letters and writers of the
Middle Ages.  He was born at Toledo, left his native land of
Spain before 1140 and led until his death a life of restless
wandering, which took him to North Africa, Egypt, Italy (Rome,
Lucca, Mantua,Verona), Southern France(Narbonne, Beziers),
Northern France (Dreux), England (London), and back again to
the South of France.  At several of the above-named places he
remained for some time and developed a rich literary activity.
In his native land he had already gained the reputation of a
distinguished poet and thinker; but, apart from his poems, his
works, which were all in the Hebrew language, were written
in the second period of his life.  With these works, which
cover in the first instance the field of Hebrew philology and
Biblical exegesis, he fulfilled the great mission of making
accessible to the Jews of Christian Europe the treasures of
knowledge enshrined in the works written in Arabic which he
had brought with him from Spain.  His grammatical writings,
among which Moznayim (``the Scales,'' written in 1140)
and Zahot (``Correctness,'' written in 1141) are the most
valuable, were the first expositions of Hebrew grammar in the
Hebrew language, in which the system of Hayyuj and his school
prevailed.  He also translated into Hebrew the two writings
of Hayyuj in which the foundations of the system were laid
down.  Of greater original value than the grammatical works of
Ibn Ezra are his commentaries on most of the books of the Bible,
of which, however, a part has been lost.  His reputation as an
intelligent and acute expounder of the Bible was founded on his
commentary on the Pentateuch, of which the great popularity is
evidenced by the numerous commentaries which were written upon
it.  In the editions of this commentary (ed. princ.  Naples
1488) the commentary on the book of Exodus is replaced by a
second, more complete commentary of Ibn Ezra, while the
first and shorter commentary on Exodus was not printed until
1840.  The great editions of the Hebrew Bible with rabbinical
commentaries contained also commentaries of Ibn Ezra's on the
following books of the Bible: Isaiah, Minor Prophets, Psalms,
Job, Pentateuch, Daniel; the commentaries on Proverbs, Ezra
and Nehemiah which bear his name are really those of Moses
Kimhi.  Ibn Ezra wrote a second commentary on Genesis as he
had done on Exodus, but this was never finished.  There are
second commentaries also by him on the Song of Songs, Esther and
Daniel.  The importance of the exegesis of Ibn Ezra consists
in the fact that it aims at arriving at the simple sense of
the text, the so-called ``Pesohat,'' on solid grammatical
principles.  It is in this that, although he takes a great
part of his exegetical material from his predecessors, the
originality of his mind is everywhere apparent, an originality
which displays itself also in the witty and lively language of his
commentaries.  To judge by certain signs, of which Spinoza
in his Tractatus Theologico Politicus makes use, Ibn
Ezra belongs to the earliest pioneers of the criticism of the
Pentateuch.  His commentaries, and especially some of the longer
excursuses, contain numerous contributions to the philosophy of
religion.  One writing in particular, which belongs to this
province (Vosod Mera), on the division and the reasons
for the Biblical commandments, he wrote in 1158 for a London
friend, Joseph b.  Jacob.  In his philosophical thought
neo-platonic ideas prevail; and astrology also had a place
in his view of the world.  He also wrote various works on
mathematical and astronomical subjects.  Ibn Ezra died on the
28th of January 1167, the place of his death being unknown.

Among the literature on Ibn Ezra may be especially mentioned:
M. Friedlander, Essays on the Writings of Ibn Ezra
(London, 1877); W. Bacher, Abraham Ibn Ezra als Grammatiker
(Strasburg, 1882); M. Steinschneider, Abraham Ibn Ezra, in
the Zeitschrift fur Mathematik und Physik, Band xxv.,
Supplement; D. Rosin, Die Religions philosophie Abraham
Ibn Ezra's in vols. xiii. and xliii. of the Monatschrift
fur Geschichte und Wissenschaft des Judenthums; his Diwan
was edited by T. Egers (Berlin, 1886): a collection of his
poems, Reime und Gedichte, with translation and commentary,
were published by D. Rosin in several annual reports of the
Jewish theological Seminary at Breslau (1885--1894). (W. BA.)

ABENSBERG, a town of Germany, in the kingdom of Bavaria, on the
Abens, a tributary of the Danube, 18 m.  S.W. of Regensburg,
with which it is connected by rail.  Pop. 2202.  It has a small
spa, and its sulphur baths are resorted to for the cure of
rheumatism and gout.  The town is the Castra Abusina of the
Romans, and Roman remains exist in the neighbourhood.  Here,
on the 20th of April 1809, Napoleon gained a signal victory
over the Austrians under the Archduke Louis and Genegal Hiller.

ABEOKUTA, a town of British West Africa in the Egba
division of the Yoruba country, S. Nigeria Protectorate.  It
is situated in 7 deg.  8' N., 3 deg.  25' E., on the Ogun river, 64
m.  N. of Lagos by railway, or 81 m. by water.  Population,
approximately 60,000.  Abeokuta lies in a beautiful and fertile
country, the surface of which is broken by masses of grey
granite.  It is spread over an extensive area, being surrounded
by mud walls 18 miles in extent.  Abeokuta, under the reforming
zeal of its native rulers, was largely transformed during
the early years of the 20th century.  Law courts, government
offices, prisons and a substantial bridge were built, good roads
made, and a large staff of sanitary inspectors appointed.
The streets are generally narrow and the houses built of
mud.  There are numerous markets in which a considerable
trade is done in native products and articles of European
manufacture.  Palm-oil, timber, rubber, yams and shea-butter
are the chief articles of trade.  An official newspaper is
published in the Yoruba and English languages.  Abeokuta is
the headquarters of the Yoruba branch of the Church Missionary
Societyi and British and American, missionaries have met
with some success in their civilizing work.  In their schools
about 2000 children are educated.  The completion in 1899
of a railway from Lagos helped not only to develop trade
but to strengthen generally the influence of the white man.

Abeokuta (a word meaning ``under the rocks,''), dating
from 1825, owes its origin to the incessant inroads of the
slavehunters from Dahomey and Ibadan, which compelled the
village populations scattered over the open country to take
refuge in this rocky stronghold against the common enemy.
Here they constituted themselves a free confederacy of many
distinct tribal groups, each preserving the traditional customs,
religious rites and even the very names of their original
villages.  Yet this apparently incoherent aggregate held
its ground successfully against the powerful armies often
sent against the place both by the king of Dahomey from the
west, and by the people of Ibadan from the north-east.

The district of Egba, of which Abeokuta is the capital, has
an estimated area of 3000 sq. m. and a population of some
350,000.  It is officially known as the Abeokuta province
of the Southern Nigeria protectorate.  It contains luxuriant
forests of palmtrees, which constitute the chief wealth of the
people.  Cotton is indigenous and is grown for export.
The Egbas are enthusiastic farmers and have largely adopted
European methods of cultivation.  They are very tenacious
of their independence, but accepted without opposition the
establishment of a British protectorate, which, while putting
a stop to inter-tribal warfare, slave-raiding and human
sacrifices, and exercising control over the working of the
laws, left to the people executive and fiscal autonomy.  The
administration is in the hands of a council of chiefs which
exercises legislative, executive and, to some extent, judicial
functions.  The president of this council, or ruling chief
---chosen from among the members of the two recognized
reigning families--is called the alake, a word meaning
``Lord of Ake,'' Ake being the name of the principal quarter
of Abeokuta, after the ancient capital of the Egbas.  The
alake exercises little authority apart from his councili
the form of government being largely democratic.  Revenue
is chiefly derived from tolls or import duties.  A visit
of the alake to England in 1904 evoked considerable public
interest.  The chief was a man of great intelligence, eager
to study western civilization, and an ardent agriculturist.

See the publications of the Church Missionary Society
dealing mith the Voruba Mission; Col. A. B. Ellis's The
Yoruba-speaking Peoples (London, 1894); and an article on
Abeokuta by Sir Wm. Macgregor, sometime governor of Lagos, in
the African Society's Journal, No. xii. (London, July 1904).

ABERAVON, a contributory parliamentary and municipal borough
of Glamorganshire, Wales, on the right bank of the Avon, near
its mouth in Swansea Bay, 11 m.  E.S.E. of Swansea and 170 m.
from London by rail.  Pop. (1901) 7553.  It has a station on the
Rhondda and Swansea Bay railway and is also on the main South
Wales line of the Great Western, whose station, however, is at
fort Talbot, half a mile distant, on the eastern side of the
Avon.  The valley of the Avon, which is only some three miles
long, has been from about 1840 a place of much metallurgical
activity.  There are tinplate and engineering works within
the borough.  At Cwmavon, 1 1/2 m. to the north-east, are
large copper-smelting works established in 1838, acquired
two years later by the governor and Company of the Copper
Miners of England, but now worked by the Rio Tinto Copper
Company.  There are also iron, steel and tinplate works
both at Cwmavon and at Port Talbot, which, when it consisted
only of docks, was appropriately known as Aberavon Port.

The town derives its name from the river Avon (corrupted from
Avan), which also gave its name to a medieval lordship.  On
the Norman conquest at Glamorgan, Caradoc, the eldest son of
the defeated prince, Lestyn ab Gwrgan, continued to hold this
lordship, and for the defence of thc passage of the river
built here a castle whose foundations are still traceable in
a field near the churchyard.  His descendants (who from the
13th century onwards styled themselves De Avan or D'Avene)
established, under line protection of the castle, a chartered
town, which in 1372 received a further charter from Edward
Le Despenser, into whose family the lordship had come on an
exchange of lands.  In modern times these charters were not
acted upon, the town being deemed a borough by prescription,
but in 1861 it was incorporated under the Municipal
Corporations Act. Since 1832 it has belonged to the Swansea
parliamentary district of boroughs, uniting with Kenfig,
Loughor, Neath and Swansea to return one member; but in 1885
the older portion of Swansea was given a separate member.

ABERCARN, an urban district in the southern parliamentary
division of Monmouthshire, England, 10 m.  N.W. of Newport
by the Great Western railway.  Pop. (1901) 12,607.  There are
collieries, ironworks and tinplate works in the district;
the town, which lies in the middle portion of the Ebbw
valley, being situated on the south-eastern flank of the
great mining region of Glamorganshire and Monmouthshire.

ABERCORN, JAMES HAMILTON, 1ST EARL OF (c. 1575-1618),
was the eldest son of Claud Hamilton, Lord Paisley (4th son of
James, 2nd earl of Arran, and duke of Chatelherault), and of
Margaret, daughter of George, 6th Lord Seton.  He was made
sheriff of Linlithgow in 1600, received large grants of
lands in Scotland and Ireland, was created in 1603 baron of
Abercorn, and on the 10th of July 1606 was rewarded for his
services in the matter of the union by being made earl of
Abercorn, and Baron Hamilton, Mount Castle and Kilpatrick.
He married Marion, daughter of Thomas, 5th Lord Boyd, and left
five sons, of whom the eldest, baron of Strabane, succeeded
him as 2nd earl of Abercorn.  He died on the 23rd of March
1618.  The title of Abercorn, held by the head of the Hamilton
family, became a marquessate in 1790, and a dukedom in 1868,
the 2nd duke of Abercorn (b. 1838) being a prominent Unionist
politician and chairman of the British South Africa Company.

ABERCROMRIE, JOHN (1780-1844), Scottish physician, was the son
of the Rev. George Abercrombie of Aberdeen, where he was born
on the 10th of October 1780.  He was educated at the university
of Edinburgh, and after graduating as M.D. in 1803 he settled
down to practise in that city, where he soon attained a leading
position.  From 1816 he published various papers in the
Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, which formed the basis
of his Pathological and Practical Researches on Diseases
of the Brain and Spinal Cord, and of his Researches on the
Diseases of the Intestinal Canal, Liver and other Viscera
of the Abdomen, both published in 1828.  He also found time
for philosophical speculations, and in 1830 he published his
Inquiries concerning the Intellectual Powers of Man and
the Investigation of Truth, which was followed in 1833 by a
sequel, The Philosophy of the Moral Feelings.  Both works,
though showing little originality of thought, achieved wide
popularity.  He died at Edinburgh on the 14th of November 1844.

ABERCROMBY, DAVID, a 17th-century Scottish physician who
was sufficiently noteworthy a generation after the probable
date of his death to have his Nova Medicinae Praxis
reprinted at Paris in 1740.  During his lifetime his Tuta
ac efficax luis venereae saepe absque mercurio ac semper
absque salivatione mercuriali curando methodus (1684) was
translated into French, Dutch and German.  Two other works
by him were De Pulsus Variatione (London, 1685), and Ars
explorandi medicas facultates plantarum ex solo sapore
(London, 1685--1688); His Opuscula were collected in 1687.
These professional writings gave him a place and memorial
in A. von Haller's Bibliotheca Medicinae Pract. (4 vols.
8vo, 1779, tom. iii. p. 619); but he claims notice rather by
his remarkable controversial books in theology and philosophy
than by his medical writings.  Bred up at Douai as a Jesuit,
he abjured popery, and published Protestancy proved Safer
than Popery' (London, 1686).  But the most noticeable of
his productions is A Discourse of Wit (London, 1685), which
contains some of the most characteristic and most definitely-put
metaphysical opinions of the Scottish philosophy of common
sense.  It was followed by Academia Scientiarum (1687),
and by A Moral Treatise of the Power. of Interest (1690),
dedicated to Robert Boyle. A Short Account of Scots Divines,
by him, was printed at Edinburgh in 1833, edited by James
Maidment.  The exact date of his death is unknown, but
according to Haller he was alive early in the 18th century.

ABERCROMBY, PATRICK (1656-c.1716), Scottish physician
and antiquarian, was the third son of Alexander Abercromby
of Fetterneir in Aberdeenshire, and brother of Francis
Abercromby, who was created Lord Glasford by James II. He
was born at Forfar in 1656 apparently of a Roman Catholic
family.  Intending to become a doctor of medicine he entered
the university of St Andrews, where he took his degree of M.D.
in 1685, but apparently he spent most of his youthful years
abroad.  It has been stated that he attended the university of
Paris.  The Discourse of Wit (1685), sometimes assigned to
him, belongs to Dr David Abercromby (q.v.).  On his return to
Scotland, he is found practising as a physician in Edinburgh,
where, besides his professional duties, he gave himself with
characteristic zeal to the study of antiquities.  He was
appointed physician to James II. in 1685, but the revolution
deprived him of the post.  Living during the agitations for
the union of England and Scotland, he took part in the war
of pamphlets inaugurated and sustained by prominent men on
both sides of the Border, and he crossed swords with no less
redoubtable a foe than Daniel Defoe in his Advantages of the
Act of Security compared with those of the intended Union
(Edinburgh, 1707), and A Vindication of the Same against Mr
De Foe (ibid.). A minor literary work of Abercromby's was
a translation of Jean de Beaugue's Histoire de la guerre
d'Ecosse (1556) which appeared in 1707.  But the work with
which his name is permanently associated is his Martial
Atchievements of the Scots Nation, issued in two large folios,
vol. i. 1711, vol. ii. 1716.  In the title-page and preface
to vol. i. he disclaims the ambition of being an historian,
but in vol. ii., in title-page and preface alike, he is no
longer a simple biographer, but an historian.  Even though,
read in the light of later researches, much of the first volume
must necessarily be relegated to the region of the mythical,
none the less was the historian a laborious and accomplished
reader and investigator of all available authorities, as well
manuscript as printed; while the roll of names of those who
aided him includes every man of note in Scotland at the time,
from Sir Thomas Craig and Sir George Mackenzie to Alexander
Nisbet and Thomas Ruddiman.  The date of Abercromby's death is
uncertain.  It has been variously assigned to 1715, 1716,
1720, and 1726, and it is usually added that he left a widow
in great poverty.  The Memoirs of the Abercrombys, commonly
attributed to him, do not appear to have been published.

See Robert Chambers, Eminent Scotsmen, s.v.; William Anderson,
Scottish Nation, s.v.; Alexander Chalmers, Biog.  Dict.,
s.v.; George Chalmers, Life of Ruddiman; William Lee, Defoe.

ABERCROMBY, SIR RALPH (1734-1801), British lieutenant-general,
was the eldest son of George Abercromby of Tillibody,
Clackmannanshire, and was born in October 1734.  Educated
at Rugby and Edinburgh University, in 1754 he was sent to
Leipzig to study civil law, with a view to his proceeding
to the Scotch bar.  On returning from the continent he
expressed a strong preference for the military profession,
and a cornet's commission was accordingly obtained for him
(March 1756) in the 3rd Dragoon Guards.  He served with his
regiment in the Seven Years' war, and the opportunity thus
afforded him of studying the methods of the great Frederick
moulded his military character and formed his tactical
ideas.  He rose through the intermediate grades to the rank of
lieutenant-colonel of the regiment (1773) and brevet colonel
in 1780, and in 1781 he became colonel of the King's Irish
infantry.  When that regiment was disbanded in 1783 he retired upon
half-pay.  That up to this time he had scarcely been engaged
in active service was owing mainly to his disapproval of the
policy of the government, and especially to his sympathies with
the American colonists in their struggles for independence;
and his retirement is no doubt to be ascribed to similar
feelings.  On leaving the army he for a time took up political
life as member of Parliament for Clackmannanshire.  This,
however, proved uncongenial, and, retiring in favour of his
brother, he settled at Edinburgh and devoted himself to the
education of his children.  But on France declaring war against
England in 1793, he hastened to resume his professional duties;
and, being esteemed one of the ablest and most intrepid
officers in the whole British forces, he was appointed to the
command of a brigade under the duke of York, for service in
Holland.  He commanded the advanced guard in the action at Le
Cateau, and was wounded at Nijmwegen.  The duty fell to him of
protecting the British army in its disastrous retreat out of
Holland, in the winter of 1794-1795.  In 1795 he received the
honour of a knighthood of the Bath, in acknowledgment of his
services.  The same year he was appointed to succeed Sir Charles
Grey, as commander-in-chief of the British forces in the West
Indies.  In 1796 Grenada was suddenly attacked and taken by a
detachment of the army under his orders.  He afterwards obtained
possession of the settlements of Demerara and Essequibo, in
South America, and of the islands of St Lucia, St Vincent and
Trinidad.  He returned in 1797 to Europe, and, in reward for
his important services, was appointed colonel of the regiment
of Scots Greys, entrusted with the governments of the Isle of
Wight, Fort-George and Fort-Augustus, and raised to the rank of
lieutenant-general.  He held, in 1797-1798, the chief command
of the forces in Ireland.  There he laboured to maintain the
discipline of the army, to suppress the rising rebellion,
and to protect the people from military oppression, with a
care worthy alike of a great general and an enlightened and
beneficent statesman.  When he was appointed to the command
in Ireland, an invasion of that country by the French was
confidently anticipated by the English government.  He used
his utmost efforts to restore the discipline of an army that
was utterly disorganized; and, as a first step, he anxiously
endeavoured to protect the people by re-establishing the
supremacy of the civil power, and not allowing the military
to be called out, except when it was indispensably necessary
for the enforcement of the law and the maintenance of
order.  Finding that he received no adequate support from the
head of the Irish government, and that all his efforts were
opposed and thwarted by those who presided in the councils
of Ireland, he resigned the command.  His departure from
Ireland was deeply lamented by the reflecting portion of the
people, and was speedily followed by those disastrous results
which he had anticipated, and which he so ardently desired
and had so wisely endeavoured to prevent.  After holding for
a short period the office of commander-in-chief in Scotland,
Sir Ralph, when the enterprise against Holland was resolved
upon in 1799, was again called to command under the duke of
York.  The campaign of 1799 ended in disaster, but friend and
foe alike confessed that the most decisive victory could not
have more conspicuously proved the talents of this distinguished
officer.  His country applauded the choice when, in 1801, he
was sent with an army to dispossess the French of Egypt.  His
experience in Holland and the West Indies particularly fitted
him for this new command, as was proved by his carrying his
army in health, in spirits and with the requisite supplies,
in spite of very great difficulties, to the destined scene of
action.  The debarkation of the troops at Aboukir, in
the face of strenuous opposition, is justly ranked among
the most daring and brilliant exploits of the English
army.  A battle in the neighbourhood of Alexandria (March
21, 1801) was the sequel of this successful landing, and it
was Abercromby's fate to fall in the moment of victory.  He
was struck by a spent ball, which could not be extracted,
and died seven days after the battle.  His old friend and
commander the duke of York paid a just tribute to the great
soldier's memory in general orders: ``His steady observance
of discipline, his ever-watchful attention to the health
and wants of his troops, the persevering and unconquerable
spirit which marked his military career, the splendour of
his actions in the field and the heroism of his death, are
worthy the imitation of all who desire, like him, a life of
heroism and a death of glory.'' By a vote of the House of
Commons, a monument was erected in his honour in St Paul's
cathedral.  His widow was created Baroness Abercromby of
Tullibody and Aboukir Bay, and a pension of L. 2000 a year
was settled on her and her two successors in the title.

A memoir of the later years of his life (1793-1801) by his
third son, James (who was Speaker of the House of Commons,
1835-1839, and became Lord Dunfermline), was published in
1861.  For a shorter account of Sir Ralph Abercromby see
Wilkinson, Twelve British Soldiers (London, 1899).

ABERDARE, HENRY AUSTIN BRUCE, 1ST BARON (1815-1895), English
statesman, was born at Duffryn, Aberdare, Glamorganshire, on
the 16th of April 1815, the son of John Bruce, a Glamorganshire
landowner.  John Bruce's original family name was Knight,
but on coming of age in 1805 he assumed the name of Bruce,
his mother, through whom he inherited the Duffryn estate,
having been the daughter of William Bruce, high sheriff of
Glamorganshire.  Henry Austin Bruce was educated at Swansea
grammar school, and in 1837 was called to the bar.  Shortly
after he had begun to practise, the discovery of coal beneath
the Duffryn and other Aberdare Valley estates brought the
family great wealth.  From 1847 to 1852 he was stipendiary
magistrate for Merthyr Tydvil and Aberdare, resigning the
position in the latter year, when he entered parliament
as Liberal member for Merthyr Tydvil.  In 1862 he became
under-secretary for the home department, and in 1869, after
losing his seat at Merthyr Tydvil, but being re-elected
for Renfrewshire, he was made home secretary by W. E.
Gladstone.  His tenure of this office was conspicuous for a
reform of the licensing laws, and he was responsible for the
Licensing Act of 1872, which constituted the magistrates the
licensing authority, increased the penalties for misconduct in
public-houses and shortened the number of hours for the sale of
drink.  In 1873 he relinquished the home secretaryship, at
Gladstone's request, to become lord president of the council,
and was almost simultaneously raised to the peerage as Baron
Aberdare.  The defeat of the Liberal government in the following
year terminated Lord Aberdare's official political life, and
he subsequently devoted himself to social, educational and
economic questions.  In 1876 he was elected F.R.S.; from 1878
to 1892 he was president of the Royal Historical Society;
and in 1881 he became president of the Royal Geographical
Society.  In 1882 he began a connexion with West Africa which
lasted the rest of his life, by accepting the chairmanship
of the National African Company, formed by Sir George Taubman
Goldie, which in 1886 received a charter under the title of the
Royal Niger Company and in 1899 was taken over by the British
government, its territories being constituted the protectorate of
Nigeria.  West African affairs, however, by no means exhausted
Lord Aberdare's energies, and it was principally through his
efforts that a charter was in 1894 obtained for the university
of Wales at Cardiff.  Lord Aberdare, who in 1885 was made a
G.C.B., presided over several Royal Commissions at different
times.  He died in London on the 25th of February 1895.
His second wite was the daughter of Sir William Napier, the
historian of the Peninsular war, whose Life he edited.

ABERDARE, a market town of Glamorganshire, Wales, situated (as
the name implies) at the confluence of the Dar and Cynon, the
latter being a tributary of the Tain.  Pop. of urban district
(1901), 43,365.  It is 4 m.  S.W. of Merthyr Tydvil, 24 from
Cardiff and 160 from London by rail.  It has a station on the
Pontypool and Swansea section of the Great Western railway,
and is also served by the Llwydcoed and Abernant stations
which are on a branch line to Merthyr.  The Tain Vale line
(opened 1846) has a terminus in the town.  The Glamorgan canal
has also a branch (made in 1811) running from Abercynon to
Aberdare.  From being, at the beginning of the 19th century,
a mere village in an agricultural district, the place grew
rapidly in population owing to the abundance of its coal and
iron ore, and the population of the whole parish (which was only
1486 in 1801) increased tenfold during the first half of the
century.  Ironworks were established at Llwydcoed and Abernant
in 1799 and 1800 respectively, followed by others at Gadlys
and Aberaman in 1827 and 1847.  These have not been worked
since about 1875, and the only metal industries remaining
in the town are an iron foundry or two and a small tinplate
works at Gadlys (established in 1868).  Previous to 1836,
most of the coal worked in the parish was consumed locally,
chiefly in the ironworks, but in that year the working of
steam coal for export was begun, pits were sunk in rapid
succession, and the coal trade, which at least since 1875
has been the chief support of the town, soon reached huge
dimensions.  There are also several brickworks and breweries.
During the latter half Of the 19th century, considerable
public improvements were effected in the town, making it,
despite its neighbouring collieries, an agreeable place of
residence.  Its institutions included a post-graduate
theological college (opened in connexion with the Church
of England in 1892, until 1907, when it was removed to
Llandaff).  There is a public park of fifty acres with two small
lakes.  Aberdare, with the ecclesiastical parishes of St
Fagan's (Trecynon) and Aberaman carved out of the ancient
parish, has some twelve Anglican churches, one Roman Catholic
church (built in 1866 in Monk Street near the site of a
cell attached to Penrhys Abbey) and over fifty Noncoformist
chapels.  The services in the majority of the chapels are in
Welsh.  The whole parish falls within the parliamentary borough
of Merthyr Tydvil.  The urban district includes what were
once the separate villages of Aberaman, Abernant, Cwmbach,
Cwmaman, Cwmdare, Llwydcoed and Trecynon.  There are several
cairns and the remains of a circular British encampment on
the mountain between Aberdare and Merthyr.  Hirwaun moor,
4 m. to the N.W. of Aberdare, was according to tradition
the scene of a battle at which Rhys ap Jewdwr, prince of
Dyfed, was defeated by the ailied forces of the Norman Robert
Fitzhamon and Iestyn ab Gwrgan, the last prince of Glamorgan.

ABERDEEN, GEORGE GORDON, 1ST EARL OF (1637-1720), lord
chancellor of Scotland, son of Sir John Gordon, 1st baronet
of Haddo, Aberdeenshire, executed by the Presbyterians in
1644, was born on the 3rd of October 1637.  He graduated
M.A., and was chosen professor at King's College, Aberdeen, in
1658.  Subsequently he travelled and studied civil law abroad.
At the Restoration the sequestration of his father's lands was
annulled, and in 1665 he succeeded by the death of his elder
brother to the baronetcy and estates.  He returned home in
1667, was admitted advocate in 1668 and gained a high legal
reputation.  He represented Aberdeenshire in the Scottish
parliament of 1669 and in the following assemblies, during his
first session strongly opposing the projected union of the two
legislatures.  In November 1678 he was made a privy councillor
for Scotland, and in 1680 was raised to the bench as Lord
Haddo.  He was a leading member of the duke of York's
administration, was created a lord of session in June and
in November 1681 president of the court.  The same year
he is reported as moving in the council for the torture of
witnesses.1 In 1682 he was made lord chancellor of Scotland,
and was created, on the 13th of November, earl of Aberdeen,
Viscount Formartine, and Lord Haddo, Methllck, Tarves and
Kellie, in the Scottish peerage, being appointed also sheriff
principal of Aberdeenshire and Midlothian.  Burnet reflects
unfavourably upon him, calls him ``a proud and covetous man,''
and declares ``the new chancellor exceeded all that had gone
before him.''2 He executed the laws enforcing religious
conformity with severity, and filled the parish churches, but
resisted the excessive measures of tyranny prescribed by the
English government; and in consequence of an intrigue of the
duke of Queensberry and Lord Perth, who gained the duchess of
Portsmouth with a present of L. 27,000, he was dismissed in 1684.
After his fall he was subjected to various petty prosecutions
by his victorious rivals with the view of discovering some
act of maladministration on which to found a charge against
him, but the investigations only served to strengthen his
credit.  He took an active part in parliament in 1685 and
1686, but remained a non-juror during the whole of William's
reign, being frequently fined for his non-attendance, and
took the oaths for the first time after Anne's accession, on
the 11th of May 1703.  In the great affair of the Union in
1707, while protesting against the completion of the treaty
till the act declaring the Scots aliens should be repealed,
he refused to support the opposition to the measure itself
and refrained from attending parliament when the treaty was
settled.  He died on the 20th of April 1720, after having
amassed a large fortune.  He is described by John Mackay as
``very knowing in the laws and constitution of his country and
is belleved to be the solidest statesman in Scotland, a fine
orator, speaks slow but sure.'' His person was said to be
deformed, and his ``want of mine or deportment'' was alleged
as a disqualification for the office of lord chancellor.  He
married Anne, daughter and sole heiress of George Lockhart of
Torbrecks, by whom he had six children, his only surviving
son, William, succeeding him as 2nd earl of Aberdeen.

See Letters to George, earl of Aberdeen (with memoir: Spalding
Club, 1851); Hist.  Account of the Senators of-the College
of Justice, by G. Brunton and D. Haig (1832), p. 408; G.
Crawfurd's Lives of the Officers of State (1726), p. 226;
Memoirs of Affairs in Scotland, by Sir G. Mackenzie (1821),
p. 148; Sir J. Lauder's (Lord Fountainhall) Journals (Scottish
Hist.  Society, vol. xxxvi., 1900); J. Mackay's Memoirs
(1733), p. 215; A. Lang's Hist. of Scotland, iii. 369, 376.
                                                     (P. C. Y.)
1 Sir J. Lauder's Hist.  Notices (Bannatyne Club, 1848), p. 297.

2 Hist. of his own Times, i. 523.

ABERDEEN, GEORGE HAMILTON GORDON, 4TH EARL OF (1784-1860),
English statesman, was the eldest son of George Gordon, Lord
Haddo, by his wife Charlotte, daughter of William Baird of
Newbyth, Haddingtonshire, and grandson of George, 3rd earl of
Aberdeen.  Born in Edinburgh on the 28th of January 1784,
he lost his father in 1791 and his mother in 1795; and as
his grandfather regarded him with indifference, he went to
reside with Henry Dundas, afterwards Viscount Melville.  At
the age of fourteen he was permitted by Scotch law to name
his own curators, or guardians, and selecting William Pitt
and Dundas for this office he spent much of his time at their
houses, thus meeting many of the leading politicians of the
day.  He was educated at Harrow, and St John's College, Cambridge,
where he graduated as a nobleman in 1804.  Before this time,
however, he had become earl of Aberdeen on his grandfather's
death in 1801, and had travelled over a large part of the
continent of Europe, meeting on his journeys Napoleon Bonaparte
and other persons of distinction.  He also spent some time in
Greece, and on his return to England founded the Athenian
Society, membership of which was confined to those who had
travelled in that country.  Moreover, he wrote an article in
the Edinburgh Review of July 1805 criticizing Sir William
Gill's Topography of Troy, and these circumstances led Lord
Byron to refer to him in Eniglish Bardo and Scotch Reviewers
as ``the travell'd thane, Athenian Aberdeen.'' Having attained
his majority in 1805, he married on the 28th of July Catherine
Elizabeth Hamilton, daughter of John James, 1st marquess of
Abercorn.  In December 1806 he was elected a representative
peer for Scotland, and took his seat as a Tory in the House of
Lords, but for some years he took only a slight part in public
business.  However, by his birth, his abilities and his
connexions alike he was marked out for a high position, and
after the death of his wife in February 1812 he was appointed
ambassador extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary at
Vienna, where he signed the treaty of Toplitz between Great
Britain and Austria in October 1813; and accompanying the
emperor Francis I. through the subsequent campaign against
France, he was present at the battle of Leipzig.  He was
one of the British representatives at the congress of
Chatillon in February 1814, and in the same capacity was
present during the negotiations which led to the treaty of
Paris in the following May. Returning home he was created
a peer of the United Kingdom as Viscount Gordon of Aberdeen
(1814), and made a member of the privy council.  On the 15th
of Juby 1815 he married Harriet, daughter of the Hon. John
Douglas, and widow of James, Viscount Hamilton, and thus
became doubly connected with the family of the marquess of
Abercorn.  During the ensuing thirteen years Aberdeen took a
less prominent part in public affairs, although he succeeded
in passing the Entail (Scotland) Act of 1825.  He kept in
touch, however, with foreign politics, and having refused to
join the ministry of George Canning in 1827, became a member
of the cabinet of the duke of Wellington as chancellor of the
duchy of Lancaster in January 1828.  In the following June he
was transferred to the office of secretary of state for foreign
affairs, and having acquitted himself with credit with regard
to the war between Russia and Turkey, and to affairs in Greece,
Portugal and France, he resigned with Wellington in November
1830, and shared his leader's attitude towards the Reform
Bill of 1832.  As a Scotsman, Aberdeen was interested in the
ecclesiastical controversy which culminated in the disruption of
1843.  In 1840 he introduced a bill to settle the vexed question
of patronage; but disliked by a majority in the general assembly
of the Scotch church, and unsupported by the government, it
failed to become law, and some opprobrium was cast upon its
author.  In 1843 he brought forward a similar measure ``to
remove doubts respecting the admission of ministers to
benefices.'' This Admission to Benefices Act, as it was called,
passed into law, but did not reconcile the opposing parties.

During the short administration of Sir Robert Peel in 1834
and 1835, Aberdeen had filled the office of secretary for
the colonies, and in September 1841 he took office again
under Peel, on this occasion as foreign secretary; the
five years during which he held this position were the most
fruitful and successful of his public life.  He owed his
success to the confidence placed in him by Queen Victoria,
to his wide knowledge of European politics, to his intimate
friendship with Guizot, and not least to his own conciliatory
disposition.  Largely owing to his efforts, causes of quarrel
between Great Britain and France in Tahiti, over the marriage
of Isabella II. of Spain, and in other directions, were
removed.  More important still were his services in settling
the question of the boundary between the United States and
British North America at a time when a single injudicious
word would probably have provoked a war.  In 1845 he supported
Peel when in a divided cabinet he proposed to suspend the duty
on foreign corn, and left office with that minister in July
1846.  After Peel's death in 1850 he became the recognized
leader of the Peelites, although since his resignation his
share in public business had been confined to a few speeches
on foreign affairs.  His dislike of the Ecclesiastical Titles
Assumption Bill, the rejection of which he failed to secure in
1851, prevented him from joining the government of Lord John
Russell, or from forming an administration himself in this
year.  In December 1852, however, be became first lord of
the treasury and head of a coalition ministry of Whigs and
Peelites.  Although united on free trade and in general
on questions of domestic reform, a cabinet which contained
Lord Palmerston and Lord John Russell, in addition to
Aberdeen, was certain to differ on questions of foreign
policy.  The strong and masterful character of these and
other colleagues made the task of the prime minister one
of unusual difficulty, a fact which was recognized by
contemporaries.  Charles Greville in his Memoirs says,
``In the present cabinet are five or six first-rate men of
equal, or nearly equal, pretensions, none of them likely to
acknowledge the superiority or defer to the opinions of any
other, and every one of these five or six considering himself
abler and more important than their premier''; and Sir James
Graham wrote, ``It is a powerful team, but it will require good
driving.'' The first year of office passed off successfully,
and it was owing to the steady support of the prime minister
that Gladstone's great budget of 1853 was accepted by the
cabinet.  This was followed by the outbreak of the dispute
between France and Turkey over the guardianship of the
holy places at Jerusalem, which, after the original cause
of quarrel had been forgotten, developed into the Crimean
war.  The tortuous negotiations which preceded the struggle
need not be discussed here, but in defence of Aberdeen
it may be said that he hoped and strove for peace to the
last.  Rightly or wrongly, however, he held that Russell was
indispensable to the cabinet, and that a resignation would
precipitate war.  His outlook, usually so clear, was blurred
by these considerations, and he lacked the strength to force
the suggestions which he made in the autumn of 1853 upon his
imperious colleagues.  Palmerston, supported by Russell and
well served by Lord Stratford de Redcllffe, British ambassador
at Constantinople, favoured a more aggressive policy, and
Aberdeen, unable to control Palmerston, and unwilling to let
Russell go, cannot be exonerated from blame.  When the war
began he wished to prosecute it vigorously; but the stories
of misery and mismanagement from the seat of war deprived
the ministry of public favour.  Russell resigned; and on
the 29th of January 1855 a motion by J. A. Roebuck, for the
appointment of a select committee to enquire into the conduct
of the War, was carried in the House of Commons by a large
majority.  Treating this as a vote of want of confidence
Aberdeen at once resigned office, and the queen bestowed
upon him the order of the Garter.  He smoothed the way for
Palmerston to succeed him, and while the earl of Clarendon
remained at the foreign office he aided him with advice and
was consulted on matters of moment.  He died in London on the
14th of December 1860, and was buried in the family vault at
Stanmore.  By his first wife he had one son and three
daughters, all of whom predeceased their father.  By his second
wife, who died in August 1833, he left four sons and one
daughter.  His eldest son, George John James, succeeded as 5th
earl; his second son was General Sir Alexander Hamilton-Gordon,
K.C.B.; his third son was the Reverend Douglas Hamilton-Gordon;
and his youngest son Arthur Hamilton, after holding various
high offices under the crown, was created Baron Stanmore in
1893.  Among the public offices held by the earl were those of
lord-lieutenant of Aberdeenshire, president of the society of
Antiquaries from 1812 to 1846 and fellow of the Royal Society.

Aberdeen was a distinguished scholar with a retentive memory
and a wide knowledge of literature and art.  His private life
was exemplary, and he impressed his contemporaries with the
loftiness of his character.  His manner was reserved, and
as a speaker he was weighty rather than eloquent.  In public
life he was remarkable for his generosity to his political
opponents, and for his sense of justice and honesty.  He
did not, however, possess the qualities which impress the
populace, and he lacked the strength which is one of the
essential gifts of a statesman.  His character is perhaps best
described by a writer who says ``his strength was not equal
to his goodness.'' His foreign policy was essentially one of
peace and non-intervention, and in pursuing it he was accused
of favouring the despotisms of Europe.  Aberdeen was a model
landlord.  By draining the land, by planting millions of trees
and by erecting numerous buildings, he greatly improved the
condition of his Aberdeenshire estates, and studied continually
the welfare of his dependants.  A bust of him by Matthew Noble
is in Westminster Abbey, and his portrait was painted by Sir
Thomas Lawrence.  He wrote An Inquiry into the Principles
of Beauty in Grecian Architecture (London, 1822), and the
Correspondence of the Earl of Aberdeen has been printed
privately under the direction of his son, Lord Stanmore.

The 6th earl, George (1841-1870), son of the 5th earl,
was drowned at sea, and was succeeded by his brother
John Campbell Gordon, 7th earl of Aberdeen, (b. 1847), a
prominent Liberal politician, who was lord-lieutenant of
Ireland in 1886, governor-general of Canada 1893--1898,
and again the lord-lieutenant of Ireland when Sir Henry
Campbell-Bannerman formed his ministry at the close of 1905.

See Lord Stanmore, The Earl of Aberdeen (London, 1893); C.
C. F. Greville, Memoirs, edited by H. Reeve (London, 1888);
Spencer Walpole, History of England (London, 1878-1886),
and Life of Lord John Russell (London, 1889); A. W.
Kinglake, Invasion of the Crimea (London, 1877-1888);
Sir T. Martin, Life of the Prince Consort (London,
1875-1880); J. Morley, Life of Gladstone (London, 1903).
                                                    (A. W. H. deg. )
ABERDEEN, a royal burgh, city and county of a city,
capital of Aberdeenshire, and chief seaport in the north of
Scotland.  It is the fourth Scottish town in population,
industry and wealth, and stands on a bay of the North
Sea, between the mouths of the Don and Dee, 130 1/2 m.  N.
E. of Edinburgh by the North British railway.  Though Old
Aberdeen, extending from the city suburbs to the southern
banks of the Dob, has a separate charter, privileges and
history, the distinction between it and New Aberdeen can no
longer be said to exist; and for parliamentary, municipal
and other purposes, the two towns now form practically one
community.  Aberdeen's popular name of the ``Granite City,'
is justified by the fact that the bulk of the town fs built
of granite, but to appreciate its more poetical designation
of the ``Silver City by the Sea,'' it should be seen after
a heavy rainfall when its stately structures and countless
houses gleam pure and white under the brilliant sunshine.
The area of the city extends to 6602 acres, the burghs of
Old Aberdeen and Woodside, and the district of Torry (for
parliamentary purposes in the constituency of Kincardineshire)
to the south of the Dee, having been incorporated in 1891.
The city comprises eleven wards and eighteen ecclesiastical
parishes, and is under the jurisdiction of a council with
lord provost, bailies, treasurer and dean of guild.  The
corporation owns the water (derived from the Dee at a spot 21
m.  W.S.W. of the city) and gas supplles, electric lighting and
tramways.  Since 1885 the city has returned two members to
Parliament.  Aberdeen is served by the Caledonian, Great North
of Scotland and North British railways (occupying a commodious
joint railway station), and there is regular communication by
sea with London and the chief ports on the eastern coast of
Great Britain and the northern shores of the Continent.  The mean
temperature of the city for the year is 45.8 deg.  F., for summer
56 deg.  F., and for winter 37.3 deg.  F. The average yearly rainfall
is 30.57 inches.  The city is one of the healthiest in Scotland.

Streets and Buildings.--Roughly, the extended city runs
north and south.  From the new bridge of Don to the ``auld
brig'' of Dee there is tramway communication via King
Street, Union Street and Holburn Road--a distance of over five
miles.  Union Street is one of the most imposing thoroughfares
in the British Isles.  From Castle Street it runs W. S. W.
for nearly a mile, is 70 ft. wide, and contains the principal
shops and most of the modern public buildings, all of granite.
Part of the street crosses the Denburn ravine (utilized for
the line of the Great North of Scotland railway) by a fine
granite arch of 132 ft. span, portions of the older town
still fringing the gorge, fifty feet below the level of Union
Street.  Amongst the more conspicuous secular buildings in the
street may be mentioned the Town and County Bank, the Music
Hall, with sitting accommodation for 2000 persons, the Trinity
Hall of the incorporated trades (originating in various years
between 1398 and 1527, and having charitable funds for poor
members, widows and orphans), containing some portraits
by George Jamesone, a noteworthy set of carved oak chairs,
dating from 1574, and the shields of the crafts with quaint
inscriptions; the office of the Aberdeen Free Press, one of
the most influential papers in the north of Scotland; the Palace
Hotel; the office of the Nnrthern Assurance Company, and the
Nutional Bank of Scotland.  In Castle Street, a continuation
eastwards of Union Street, are situated the Municipnl and
County Buildings, one of the most splendid granite edifices
in Scotland, in the Franco-Scottish Gothic style, built in
1867-1878.  They are of four stories and contain the great
hall with an open timber ceiling and oak-panelled walls; the
Sheriff Court House; the Town Hall, with excellent portraits
of Prince Albert (Prince Consort), the 4th earl of Aberdeen,
the various lord provosts and other distinguished citizens.
In the vestibule of the entrance corridor stands a suit of
black armour believed to have been worn by Provost Sir Robert
Davidson, who feh in the battle of Harlaw, near Inverurie, in
1411.  From the south-western corner a grand tower rises to
a height of 210 ft., commanding a fine view of the city and
surrounding country.  Adjoining the municipal buildings is
the North of Scotland Bank, of Greek design, with a portico
of Corinthian columns, the capitals of which are exquisitely
carved.  On the opposite side of the street is the fine
building of the Union Bank.  At the upper end of Castle Street
stands the Salvation Army Citadel, an effective castellated
mansion, the most imposing ``barracks'' possessed anywhere
by this organization.  In front of it is the Market Cross,
a beautiful, open-arched, hexagonal structure, 21 ft. in
diameter and 18 ft. high.  The original was designed in 1682
by Jnhn Montgomery, a native architect, but in 1842 it was
removed hither from its old site and rebuilt in a better
style.  On the entablature surmounting the Ionic columns are
panels containing medallions of Scots sovereigns from James
I. to James VII. From the centre rises a shaft, 12 1/2 ft.
high, with a Corinthian capital on which is the royal,unicorn
rampant.  On an eminence east of Castle Street are the military
barracks.  In Market Street are the Mechanics' Institution,
founded in 1824, with a good library; the Post and Telegraph
offices; and the Market, where provisions of all kinds and
general wares are sold.  The Fish Market, on the Albert Basin,
is a busy scene in the early morning.  The Art Gallery and
Museum at Schoolhill, built in the Italian Renaissance style
of red and brown granite, contains an excellent Collection of
pictures, the Macdonald Hall of portraits of contemporary
artists by themselves being of altogether exceptional
interest and unique of its kind in Great Britain.  The public
llbrary, magnificently housed, contains more than 60,000
volumes.  The theatre in Guild Street is the chief seat of
dramatic, as the Palace Theatre in Bridge Place is of variety
entertainment.  The new buildings of Marischal College fronting
Broad Street, opened by King Edward VII. in 1906, form one
of the most splendid examples of modern architecture in Great
Britain; the architect, Alexander Marshall Mackenzie, a native
of Aberdeen, having adapted his material, white granite, to
the design of a noble building with the originality of genius.

Churches.---Like most Scottish towns, Aberdeen is well
equipped with churches, most of them of good design, but
few of special interest.  The East and West churches of St
Nicholas, their kirkyard separated from Union Street by an Ionic
facade, 147 1/2 ft. long, built in 1830, form one continuous
building, 220ft. in length, including the Drum Aisle (the
ancient burial-place of the Irvines of Drum) and the Colllson
Aisle, which divide them and which formed the transept of the
12th-century church of St Nicholas.  The West Church was built in
1775, in the Italian style, the East originally in 1834 in the
Gothic.  In 1874 a fire destroyed the East Church and the
old central tower with its fine peal of nine bells, one of
which, Laurence or ``Lowrie,'' was 4 ft. in diameter at the
mouth, 3 1/2 ft. high and very thick.  The church was rebuilt
and a massive granite tower erected over the intervening
aisles at the cost of the municipality, a new peal of 36
bells, cast in Holland, being installed to commemorate the
Victorian jubilee of 1887.  The Roman Catholic Cathedral in
Huntly Street, a Gothic building, was erected in 1859.  The
see of Aberdeen was first founded at Mortlach in Banffshire
by Malcolm II. in 1004 to celebrate his victory there over
the Danes, but in 1137 David I. transferred the bishopric
to Old Aberdeen, and twenty years later the cathedral of
St Machar, situated a few hundred yards from the Don, was
begun.  Save during the episcopate of William Elphinstone
(1484-1511), the building progressed slowly.  Gavin Dunbar,
who followed him in 1518, was enabled to complete the
structure by adding the two western spires and the southern
transept.  The church suffered severely at the Reformation,
but is still used as the parish church.  It now consists of the
nave and side aisles.  It is chiefly built of outlayer granite,
and, though the plainest cathedral in Scotland, its stately
simplicity and severe symmetry lend it unique distinction.
On the flat panelled ceiling of the nave are the heraldic
shields of the princes, noblemen and bishops who shared in its
erection, and the great west window contains modern painted
glass of excellent colour and design.  The cemeteries are St
Peter's in Old Aberdeen, Trinity near the links, Nellfield
at the junction of Great Western and Holburn Roads, and
Allenvale, very tastefully laid out, adjoining Duthie Park.

Education.---Aberdeen University consists of King's College
in Old Aberdeen, founded by Bishop Elphinstone in 1494,
and Marischal College, in Broad Street, founded in 1593 by
George Keith, 5th earl Marischal, which were incorporated in
1860.  Arts and divinity are taught at King's, law, medicine
and science at Marischal.  The number of students exceeds 800
yearly.  The buildings of both colleges are the glories of
Aberdeen.  King's forms a quadrangle with interior court, two
sides of which have been rebuilt, and a library wing has been
added.  The Crown Tower and the Chapel, the oldest parts, date from
1500.  The former is surmounted by a structure about 40 ft.
high, consisting of a six-sided lantern and royal crown, both
sculptured, and resting on the intersections of two arched
ornamental slips rising from the four corners of the top of the
tower.  The choir of the chapel still contains the original
oak canopied stalls, miserere seats and lofty open screens in
the French flamboyant style, and of unique beauty of design and
execution.  Their preservation was due to the enlightened
energy of the principal at the time of the Reformation, who
armed his folk to save the building from the barons of the
Mearns after they had robbed St Machar's of its bells and
lead.  Marischal College is a stately modern building, having
been rebuilt in 1836-1841, and greatly extended several years
later at a cost of L. 100,000.  The additions to the buildings
opened by King Edward VII. in 1906 have been already mentioned.
The beautiful Mitchell Tower is so named from the benefactor (Dr
Charles Mitchell) who provided the splendid graduation hall.
The opening of this tower in 1895 signalized the commemoration
of the four hundredth anniversary of the foundation of the
university.  The University Library comprises nearly 100,000
books.  A Botanic Garden was presented to the university in
1899.  Aberdeen and Glasgow Universities combine to return
one member to Parliament.  The United Free Church Divinity
Hall in Alford Place, in the Tudor Gothic style, dates from
1850.  The Grammar School, founded in 1263, was removed in
1861-1863 from its old quarters in Schoolhill to a large new
building, in the Scots Baronial style, off Skene Street.
Robert Gordon's College in Schoolhill was founded in 1729
by Robert Gordon of Straloch and further endowed in 1816 by
Alexander Simpson of Collyhill.  Originally devoted (as Gordon's
Hospital) to the instruction and maintenance of the sons of poor
burgesses of guild and trade in the city, it was reorganized
in 1881 as a day and night school for secondary and technical
education, and has since been unusually successful.  Besides
a High School for Girls and numerous board schools, there are
many private higher-class schools.  Under the Endowments Act
1882 an educational trust was constituted which possesses a
capital of L. 155,000.  At Blairs, in Kincardineshire, five
miles S.W. of Aberdeen, is St Mary's Roman Catholic College
for the training of young men intended for the priesthood.

Charities.---The Royal Infimary, in Woolmanhill, established
in 1740, rebuilt in the Grecian style in 1833-1840, and
largely extended after 1887 as a memorial of Queen Victoria's
jubilee; the Royal Asylum, opened in 1800; the Female Orphan
Asylum, in Albyn Place, founded in 1840; the Blind Asylum,
in Huntly Street, established in 1843; the Royal Hospital
for Sick Children; the Maternity Hospital, founded in 1823;
the City Hospital for Infectious Diseases; the Deaf and Dumb
Institution; Mitchell's Hospital in Old Aberdeen; the East
and West Poorhouses, with lunatic wards; and hospitals devoted
to specialized diseases, are amongst the most notable of
the charitable institutions.  There are, besides, industrial
schools for boys and girls and for Roman Catholic children, a
Female School of Industry, the Seabank Rescue Home, Nazareth
House and Orphanage, St Martha's Home for Girls, St Margaret's
Convalescent Home and Sisterhood, House of Bethany, the
Convent of the Sacred Heart and the Educational Trust School.

Parks and Open Spaces.---Duthie Park, of 50 acres, the gift
of Miss Elizabeth Crombie Duthie of Ruthrieston, occupies an
excellent site on the north bank of the Dee. Victoria Park
(13 acres) and its extension Westburn Park (13 acres) are
situated in the north-western area; farther north lies Stewart
Park (11 acres), called after Sir D. Stewart, lord provost in
1893.  The capacious links bordering the sea between the
mouths of the two rivers are largely resorted to for open-air
recreation; there is here a rifle range where a ``wapinschaw,''
or shooting tournament, is held annually.  Part is laid out
as an 18-hole golf course; a section is reserved for cricket
and football; a portion has been railed off for a race-course,
and a bathing-station has been erected.  Union Terrace
Gardens are a popular rendezvous in the heart of the city.

Statues.---In Union Terrace Gardens stands a colossal statue
in bronze of Sir William Wallace, by W. G. Stevenson, R.S.A.
(1888).  In the same gardens are a bronze statue of Burns
and Baron Marochetti's seated figure of Prince Albert.  In
front of Gordon's College is the bronze statue, by T. S.
Burnett, A.R.S.A., of General Gordon (1888).  At the east
end of Union Street is the bronze statue of Queen Victoria,
erected in 1893 by the royal tradesmen of the city.  Near the
Cross stands the granite statue of the 5th duke of Gordon (d.
1836).  Here may also be mentioned the obelisk of Peterhead
granite, 70 ft. high, erected in the square of Marischal
College to the memory of Sir James M`Grigor (1778-1851), the
military surgeon and director-general of the Army Medical
Department, who was thrice elected lord rector of the College.

Bridges.--The Dee is crossed by four bridges,--the old
bridge, the Wellington suspension bridge, the railway bridge,
and Victoria Bridge, opposite Market Street.  The first, till
1832 the only access to the city from the south, consists of
seven semicircular ribbed arches, is about 30 ft. high, and
was built early in the 16th century by Bishops Elphinstone and
Dunbar.  It was nearly all rebuilt in 1718--1723, and in
1842 was widened from 14 1/2 to 26 ft.  The bridge of Don has
five granite arches, each 75 ft. in span, and was built in
1827--1832.  A little to the west is the Auld Brig o'
Balgownie, a picturesque single arch spanning the deep
black stream, said to have been built by King Robert I.,
and celebrated by Byron in the tenth canto of Don Juan.

Harbour.--A defective harbour, with a shallow sand and gravel
bar at its entrance. long retarded the trade of Aberdeen, but
under various acts since 1773 it was greatly deepened.  The
north pier, built partly by Smeaton in 1775-1781, and partly
by Telford in 1810-1815, extends nearly 3000 ft. into the North
Sea. It increases the depth of water on the bar from a few
feet to 22 or 24 ft. at spring tides and to 17 or 18 ft. at
neap.  A wet dock, of 29 acres, and with 6000 ft. of quay,
was completed in 1848 and called Victoria Dock in honour
of the queen's visit to the city in that year.  Adjoining
it is the Upper Dock.  By the Harbour Act of 1868, the Dee
near the harbour was diverted from the south at a cost of
L. 80,000, and 90 acres of new ground (in addition to 25 acres
formerly made up) were provided on the north side of the
river for the Albert Basin (with a graving dock), quays and
warehouses.  A breakwater of concrete, 1050 ft. long, was
constructed on the south side of the stream as a protection
against south-easterly gales.  On Girdleness, the southern
point of the bay, a lighthouse was built in 1833.  Near the
harbour mouth are three batteries mounting nineteen guns.

Industry.---Owing to the variety and importance of its chief
industries Aberdeen is one of the most prosperous cities in
Scotland.  Very durable grey granite has been quarried near
Aberdeen for more than 300 years, and blocked and dressed
paving ``setts,'' kerb and building stones, and monumental
and other ornamental work of granite have long been exported
from the district to all parts of the world.  This, though
once the predominant industry, has been surpassed by the
deep-sea fisheries, which derived a great impetus from
beam-trawling, introduced in 1882, and steam line fishing
in 1889, and threaten to rival if not to eclipse those of
Grimsby.  Fish trains are despatched to London daily.  Most
of the leading industries date from the 18th century, amongst
them woollens (1703), linen (1749) and cotton (1779).  These
give employment to several thousands of operatives.  The
paper-making industry is one of the most famous and oldest in
the city, paper having been first made in Aberdeen in 1694.
Flax-spinning and jute and combmaking factories are also very
flourishing, and there are successful foundries and engineering
works.  There are large distilleries and breweries, and
chemical works employing many hands.  In the days of wooden
ships ship-building was a flourishing industry, the town being
noted for its fast clippers, many of which established records
in the ``tea races.'' The introduction of trawllng revived
this to some extent, and despite the distance of the city
from the iron fields there is a fair yearly output of iron
vessels.  Of later origin are the jam, pickle and potted
meat factories, hundreds of acres having been laid down in
strawberries and other fruits within a few miles of the city.

History.--Aberdeen was an important place as far back as the
12th century.  William the Lion had a residence in the city, to
which he gave a charter in 1179 confirming the corporate rights
granted by David I. The city received other royal charters
later.  It was burned by the English king, Edward III., in
1336, but it was soon rebuilt and extended, and called New
Aberdeen.  The burgh records are the oldest in Scotland.
They begin in 1398 and with one brief break are complete to
the present day.  For many centuries the city was subject to
attacks by the neighbouring barons, and was strongly fortified,
but the gates were all removed by 1770.  In 1497 a blockhouse
was built at the harbour mouth as a protection against the
English.  During the struggles between the Royalists and
Covenanters the city was impartially plundered by both
sides.  In 1715 the Earl Marischal proclaimed the Old
Pretender at Aberdeen, and in 1745 the duke of Cumberland
resided for a short time in the city before attacking
the Young Pretender.  The motto on the city arms is ``Bon
Accord,'' which formed the watchword of the Aberdonians
while aiding Robert Bruce in his battles with the English.

Population.---In 1396 the population was about 3000.  By 1801 it had
become 26,992; in 1841 it was 63,262; (1891) 121,623; (1901) 153,503.

AUTHORITIES.--The charters of the burgh; extracts from
the council register down to 1625, and selections from the
letters. guildry and treasurer's accounts, forming 3 vols.
of the Spalding Club; Cosmo Innes, Registrum Episcopatus
Aberdonensis, Spalding Club; Walter Thore, The History
of Aberdeen (1811); Robert Wilson, Historical Account and
Delineation of Aberdeen (1822); William Kennedy, The Annals
of Aberdeen (1818); Orem, Descripjion of the Chanonry,
Cathedral and King's College of Old Aberdeen, 1724-1725
(1830); Sir Andrew Leith Hay of Rannes, The Castellated
Architecture of Aberdeen; Giles, Specimens of old
Castellated Houses of Aberdeen (1838); James Bryce, Lives
of Eminent Men of Aberdeen (1841); J. Gordon, Description
of Both Towns of Aberdeen (Spalding Club, 1842); Joseph
Robertson, The Book of Bon-Accord (Aberdeen, 1839); W.
Robbie, Aberdeen: its Traditions and History (Aberdeen,
1893); C. G. Burr and A. M. Munro, Old Landmarks of Aberdeen
(Aberdeen, 1886); A. M. Munro, Memorials of the Aldermen,
Provosts and Lord Provosts of Aberdeen (Aberdeen, 1897);
P. J. Anderson, Charters, &c., illustrating the History
of Records of Marischal College (New Spalding 1890);
Selections from the Records of Marischal College (New
Spalding Club, 1889, 1898..1899); J. Cooper, Chartulary of
the Church of St Nicholas (New Spalding Club, 1888, 1892);
G. Cadenhead, Sketch of the Territorial History of the
Burgh of Aberdeen (Aberdeen, 1876); W. Cadenhead, Guide to
the City of Aberdeen (Aberdeen, 1897); A. Smith, History
and Antiquities of New and Old Aberdeen (Aberdeen, 1882).

ABERDEEN, a city and the county-seat of Brown county, South
Dakota, U.S.A., about 125 m.  N.E. of Pierre.  Pop. (1890)
3182; (1900) 4087, of whom 889 were foreign born; (1905) 5841;
(1910) 10,753.  Aberdeen is served by the Chicago, Milwaukee
and St Paul, the Great Northern, the Minneapolis and St
Louis, and the Chicago and North Western railways.  It is
the financial and trade centre for the northern part of the
state, a fine agricultural region, and in 1908 had five banks
and a number of wholesale houses.  The city is the seat of the
Northern Normal and Industrial School, a state institution,
and has a Carnegie Library; the principal buildings are the
court house and the government buildings.  Artesian wells
furnish good water-power, and artesian-well supplies, grain
pitchers, brooms, chemicals and flour are manufactured.  The
municipality owns and operates the water-works.  Aberdeen
was settled in 1880, and was chartered as a city in 1883.

ABERDEENSHIRE, a north-eastern county of Scotland, bounded
N. and E. by the North Sea, S. by Kincardine, Forfar and
Perth, and W. by Inverness and Banff.  It has a coast-line
of 65 m., and is the sixth Scottish county in area, occupying
1261,887 acres or 1971 sq. m.  The county is generally
hilly, and from the south-west, near the centre of Scotland,
the Grampians send out various branches, mostly to the
north-east.  The shire is popularly divided into five
districts.  Of these the first is Mar, mostly between the
Dee and Don, which nearly covers the southern half of the
county and contains the city of Aberdeen.  It is mountainous,
especially Braemar (q.v.), which contains the greatest
mass of elevated land in the British Isles.  The soil on the
Dee is sandy, and on the Don loamy.  The second district,
Formartine, between the lower Don and Ythan, has a sandy
coast, which is succeeded inland by a clayey, fertile, tilled
tract, and then by low hills, moors, mosses and tilled land.
Buchan, the third district, lies north of the Ythan, and,
comprising the north-east of the county, is next in size to
Mar, parts of the coast being bold and rocky, the interior bare,
low, flat, undulating and in places peaty.  On the coast, 6
m.  S. of Peterhead, are the Bullers of Buchan--a basin in
which the sea, entering by a natural arch, boils up violently
in stormy weather.  Buchan Ness is the most easterly point of
Scotland.  The fourth district, Garioch, in the centre of the
shire, is a beautiful, undulating, loamy, fertile valley.
formerly called the granary of Aberdeen.  Strathbogie, the
fifth district, occupying a considerable area south of the
Deveron, mostly consists of hills, moors and mosses.  The
mountains are the most striking of the physical features of the
county.  Ben Macdhui (4296 ft.), a magnificent mass, the
second highest mountain in Great Britain, Braeriach (4248),
Cairntoul (4241), Ben-na-bhuaird (3924), Ben Avon (3843),
``dark'' Lochnagar (3786), the subject of a well-known song by
Byron, Cairn Eas (3556), Sgarsoch (3402), Culardoch (2953),
are the principal heights in the division of Mar. Farther
north rise the Buck of Cabrach (2368) on the Banffshire border,
Tap o' Noth (1830), Bennachie (1698), a beautiful peak which
from its central position is a landmark visible from many
different parts of the county, and which is celebrated in John
Imlah's song, ``O gin I were where Gadie rins,'' and Foudland
(1529).  The chief rivers are the Dee, 90 m. long; the Iyon,
82 m.; the Ythan, 37 m., with mussel-beds at its mouth; the
Ugie, 20 m., and the Deveron, 62 m., partly on the boundary of
Banffshire.  The rivers abound with salmon and trout, and the
pearl mussel occurs in the Ythan and Don. A valuable pearl
in the Scottish crown is said to be from the Ythan.  Loch
Muick, the largest of the few lakes in the county, 1310 ft.
above the sea, 2 1/2 m. long and  1/3 to  1/2 m. broad, lies some
8  1/2 m.  S.W. of Ballater, and has Altnagiuthasach, a royal
shooting-box, near its south-western end.  Loch Strathbeg, 6
m.  S.E. of Fraserburgh, is only separated from the sea by
a narrow strip of land.  There are noted chalybeate springs
at Peterhead, Fraserburgh, and Pannanich near Ballater.

Geology.---The greater part of the county is composed of
crystalline schists belonging to the metamorphic rocks of
the Eastern Highlands.  In the upper parts of the valleys
of the Dee and the Don they form well-marked groups, of
which the most characteristic are (1) the black schists and
phyllites, with calcflintas, and a thin band of tremolite
limestone, (2) the main or Blair Atholl limestone, (3) the
quartzite.  These divisions are folded on highly inclined or
vertical axes trending north-east and south-west, and hence
the same zones are repeated over a considerable area.  The
quartzite is generally regarded as the highest member of the
series.  Excellent sections showing the component strata
occur in Glen Clunie and its tributary valleys above Braemar.
Eastwards down the Dee and the Don and northwards across the
plain of Buchan towards Rattray Head and Fraserburgh there
is a development of biotite gneiss, partly of sedimentary
and perhaps partly of igneous origin.  A belt of slate which
has been quarried for roofing purposes runs along the west
border of the county from Turriff by Auchterless and the
Foudland Hills towards the Tap o' Noth near Gartly.  The
metamorphic rocks have been invaded by igneous materials, some
before, and by far the larger series after the folding of the
strata.  The basic types of the former are represented by
the sills of epidiorite and hornblende gneiss in Glen Muick
and Glen Callater, which have been permeated by granite and
pegmatite in veins and lenticles, often foliated.  The later
granites subsequent to the plication of the schists have a
wide distribution on the Ben Macdhui and Ben Avon range, and
on Lochnagar; they stretch eastwards from Ballater by Tarland
to Aberdeen and north to Bennachie.  Isolated masses appear
at Peterhead and at Strichen.  Though consisting mainly of
biotite granite, these later intrusions pass by intermediate
stages into diorite, as in the area between Balmoral and the
head-waters of the Gairn.  The granites have been extensively
quarried at Rubislaw, Peterhead and Kemnay.  Serpentine and
troctolite, the precise age of which is uncertain, occur at
the Black Dog rock north of Aberdeen, at Belhelvie and near Old
Meldrum.  Where the schists of sedimentary origin have been
pierced by these igneous intrusions, they are charged with
contact minerals such as sillimanite, cordierite, kyanite and
andalusite.  Cordierite-bearing rocks occur near Ellon, at the
foot of Bennachie, and on the top of the Buck of Cahrach.  A
banded and mottled calc-silicate hornfels occurring with the
limestone at Iyerry Falls, W. N.W. of Braemar, has yielded
malacolite, wollastonite, brown idocrase, garnet, sphene and
hornblende.  A larger list of minerals has been obtained
from an exposure of limestone and associated beds in Glen
Gairn, about four miles above the point where that river
joins the Dee. Narrow belts of Old Red Sandstone, resting
unconformably on the old platform of slates and schists, have
been traced from the north coast at Peterhead by Turriff to
Fyvie, and also from Huntly by Gartly to Kildrummy Castle.
The strata consist mainly of conglomerates and sandstones,
which, at Gartly and at Rhyme, are associated with lenticular
bands of andesite indicating contemporaneous volcanic
action.  Small outliers of conglomerate and sandstone of this
age have recently been found in the course of excavations in
Aberdeen.  The glacial deposits, especially in the belt
bordering the coast between Aberdeen and Peterhead, furnish
important evidence.  The ice moved eastwards off the high
ground at the head of the Dee and the Don, while the mass
spreading outwards from the Moray Firth invaded the low
plateau of Buchan; but at a certain stage there was a marked
defection northwards parallel with the coast, as proved by
the deposit of red clay north of Aberdeen.  At a later date
the local glaciers laid down materials on top of the red
clay.  The committee appointed by the British Association
(Report for 1897, p. 333) proved that the Greensand, which
has yielded a large suite of Cretaceous fossils at Moreseat,
in the parish of Cruden, occurs in glacial drift, resting
probably on granite.  The strata from which the Moreseat
fossils were derived are not now found in place in that part
of Scotland, but Mr Jukes Brown considers that the horizon
of the fossils is that of the lower Greensand of the Isle of
Wight or the Aptien stage of France.  Chalk flints are widely
distributed in the drift between Fyvie and the east coast of
Buchan.  At Plaidy a patch of clay with Liassic fossils
occurs.  At several localities between Logie Coldstone and Dinnet
a deposit of diatomite (Kieselguhr) occurs beneath the peat.

Flora and Fauna.---The tops of the highest mountains have an
arctic flora.  At the royal lodge on Loch Muick, 1350 ft. above
the sea, grow larches, vegetables, currants, laurels, roses,
&c. Some ash-trees, four or five feet in girth, are growing
at 1300 ft. above the sea.  T rees, especially Scotch fir and
larch, grow well, and Braemar is rich in natural timber, said
to surpass any in the north of Europe.  Stumps of Scotch fir
and oak found in peat are sometimes far larger than any now
growing.  The mole is found at 1800 ft. above the sea, and the
squirrel at 1400.  Grouse, partridges and hares are plentiful,
and rabbits are often too numerous.  Red deer abound in
Braemar, the deer forest being the most extensive in Scotland.

Climate and Agriculture.---The climate, except in the
mountainous districts, is comparatively mild, owing to
the proximity of much of the shire to the sea.  The mean
annual temperature at Braemar is 43.6 deg.  F., and at Aberdeen
45.8 deg. .  The mean yearly rainfall varies from about 30 to 37
in.  The summer climate of the upper Dee and Don valleys is
the driest and most bracing in the British Isles, and grain
is cultivated up to 1600 ft. above the sea, or 400 to 500
ft. higher than elsewhere in North Britain.  Poor, gravelly,
clayey and peaty solis prevail, but tile-draining, bones and
guano, and the best methods of modern tillage, have greatly
increased the produce.  Indeed, in no part of Scotland has
a more productive soil been made out of such unpromising
material.  Farm-houses and steadings have much improved, and
the best agricultural implements and machines are in general
use.  About two-thirds of the population depend entirely
on agriculture . Farms are small compared with those in
the south-eastern counties.  Oats are the predominant crop,
wheat has practically gone out of cultivation, but barley
has largely increased.  The most distinctive industry is
cattle-feeding.  A great number of the home-bred crosses
are fattened for the London and local markets, and Irish
animals are imported on an extensive scale for the same
purpose, while an exceedingly heavy business in dead meat
for London and the south is done all over the county.
Sheep, horses and pigs are also raised in large numbers.

Fisheries.---A large fishing population in villages along
the coast engage in the white and herring fishery, which is the
next most important industry to agriculture, its development
having been due almost exclusively to the introduction of steam
trawlers.  The total value of the annual catch, of which
between a half and a third consists of herrings, amounts to
L. 1,000,000.  Haddocks are salted and rock-dried (speldings)
or smoked (finnans).  The ports and creeks are divided
into the fishery rllstricts of Peterhead, Fraserburgh and
Aberdeen, the last of which includes also three Kincardineshire
ports.  The herring season for Aberdeen, Peterhead and
Fraserburgh is from June to September, at which time
the ports are crowded with boats from other Scottish
districts.  There are valuable salmon-fishings--rod, net
and stake-net--on the Dee, Don, Ythan and Ugie.  The average
annual despatch of salmon from Aberdeenshire is about 400 tons.

Other Industries.--Manufactures are mainly prosecuted in or
near the city of Aberdeen, but throughout the rural districts
there is much milling of corn, brick and tile making, smith-work,
brewing and distilling, cart and farm-implement making,
casting and drying of peat, and timber-felling, especially
on Deeside and Donside, for pit-props, railway sleepers,
laths and barrel staves.  There are a number of paper-making
establishments, most of them on the Don near Aberdeen.

The chief source of mineral wealth is the noted durable
granite, which is quarried at Aberdeen, Kemnay, Peterhead and
elsewhere.  An acre of land on being reclaimed has yielded L. 40 to
L. 50 worth of causewaying stones.  Sandstone and other rocks
are also quarried at different parts.  The imports are mostly
coal, lime, timber, iron, slate, raw materials for the textile
manufactures, wheat, cattle-feeding stuffs, bones, guano, sugar,
alcoholic liquors, fruits.  The exports are granite (roughdressed
and polished), flax, woollen and cotton goods, paper, combs,
preserved provisions, oats, barley, live and dead cattle.

Communications.---From the south Aberdeen city is approached
by the Caledonian (via Perth, Forfar and Stonehaven), and the
North British (via Dundee, Montrose and Stonehaven) railways,
and the shire is also served by the Great North of Scotland
railway, whose main line runs via Kintore and Huntly to Keith and
Elgin.  There are branch lines from various points opening up
the more populous districts, as from Aberdeen to Ballater by
Deeside, from Aberdeen to Fraserburgh (with a branch at Maud
for Peterhead and at Ellon for Cruden Bay and Boddam), from
Kintore to Alford, and from Inverurie to Old Meldrum and also to
Macduff.  By sea there is regular communication with London,
Leith, Inverness, Wick, the Orkneys and Shetlands, Iceland and the
continent.  The highest of the macadamized roads crossing the
eastern Grampians rises to a point 2200 ft. above sea-level.

Population and Government.---In 1801 the population numbered
284,036 and in 1901 it was 304,439 (of whom 159,603 were
females), or 154 persons to the sq. m.  In 1901 there were 8
persons who spoke Gaelic only, and 1333 who spoke Gaelic and
English.  The chief towns are Aberdeen (pop. in 1901, 153,503),
Bucksburn (2231), Fraserburgh (9105), Huntly (4136), Inverurie
(3624), Peterhead (11,794), Turriff (2273).  The Supreme Court
of Justiciary sits in Aberdeen to try cases from the counties of
Aberdeen, Banff and Kincardine.  The three counties are under
a sheriff, and there are two sheriffs-substitute resident in
Aberdeen, who sit also at Fraserburgh, Huntly, Peterhead and
Turriff.  The sheriff courts are held in Aberdeen and
Peterhead.  The county sends two members to parliament
--one for East Aberdeenshire and the other for West
Aberdeenshire.  The county town, Aberdeen (q.v.), returns two
members.  Peterhead, Inverurie and Kintore belong to the Elgin
group of parliamentary burghs, the other constituents being
Banff, Cullen and Elgin.  The county is under school-board
jurisdiction, and there are also several voluntary schools.
There are higher-class schools in Aberdeen, and secondary
schools at Huntly, Peterhead and Fraserburgh, and many of
the other schools in the county earn grants for secondary
education.  The County Secondary Education Committee dispense
a large sum, partly granted by the education department and
partly contributed by local authorities from the ``residue''
grant, and support, besides the schools mentioned, local
clases and lectures in agriculture, fishery and other technical
subjects, in addition to subsidizing the agricultural department
of the university of Aberdeen.  The higher branches of
education have always been thoroughly taught in the schools
throughout the shire, and pupils have long been in the
habit of going directly from the schools to the university.

The native Scots are long-headed, shrewd, careful, canny,
active, persistent, but reserved and blunt, and without
demonstrative enthusiasm.  They have a physiognomy distinct
from the rest of the Scottish people, and have a quick,
sharp, rather angry accent.  The local Scots dialect is
broad, and rich in diminutives, and is noted for the use
of e for o or u, f for wh, d for th, &c.
So recently as 1830 Gaelic was the fireside language of
almost every family in Braemar, but now it is little used.

History.---The country now forming the shires of Aberdeen
and Banff was originally peopled by northern Picts, whom
Ptolemy called Taixall, the territory being named Taixalon.
Their town of Devana, once supposed to be the modern Aberdeen,
has been identified by Prof.  John Stuart with a site in the
parish of Peterculter, where there are remains of an ancient
camp at Normandykes, and by Dr W. F. Skene with a station
on Loch Davan, west of Aboyne.  So-called Roman camps have
also been discovered on the upper Ythan and Deveron, but
evidence of effective Roman occupation is still to seek.
Traces of the native inhabitants, however, are much less
equivocal.  Weems or earth-houses are fairly common in the
west.  Relics of crannogs or lake-dwellings exist at Loch
Ceander, or Kinnord, 5 m. north-east of Ballater, at Loch
Goul in the parish of New Machar and elsewhere.  Duns or forts
occur on hills at Dunecht, where the dun encloses an area
of two acres, Bnrra near Old Meldrum, Tap o' Noth, Dunnideer
near Insch and other places.  Monoliths, standing stones and
``Druidical'' circles of the pagan period abound, and there are
many examples of the sculptured stones of the early Christian
epoch.  Efforts to convert the Picts were begun by Teman
in the 5th century, aad continued by Columba (who founded
a monastery at Old Deer), Drostan, Maluog and Machar, but
it was long before they showed lasting results.  Indeed,
dissensions within the Columban church and the expulsion
of the clergy from Pictland by the Pictish king Nectan in
the 8th century undid most of the progress that had been
made.  The Vikings and Danes periodically raided the coast,
but whhen (1040) Macbeth ascended the throne of Scotland the
Northmen, under the guidance of Thorfinn, refrained from further
trouble in the north-east.  Macbeth was afterwards slain at
Lumphanan (1057), a cairn on Perkhill marking the spot.  The
influence of the Norman conquest of England was felt even in
Aberdeenshire.  Along with numerous Anglo-Saxon exiles, there
also settled in the country Flemings who introduced various
industries, Saxons who brought farming, and Scandinavians
who taught nautical skill.  The Celts revolted more than
once, but Malcolm Canmore and his successors crushed them
and confiscated their lands.  In the reign of Alexander
I. (d. 1124) mention is first made of Aberdeen (originally
called Abordon and, in the Norse sagas, Apardion), which
received its charter from William the Lion in 1179, by which
date its burgesses had alfeady combined with those of Banff,
Elgin, Inverness and other trans-Grampian communities to form
a free Hanse, under which they enjoyed exceptional trading
privileges.  By this time, too, the Church had been organized,
the bishopric of Aberdeen having been established in 1150.
In the 12th and 13th centuries some of the great Aberdeenshire
famines arose, including the earl of Mar (c. 1122), the
Leslies, Freskins (ancestors of the dukes of Sutherland),
Durwards, Bysets, Comyns and Cheynes, and it is significant
that in most cases their founders were immigrants.  The
Celtic thanes and their retainers slowly fused with the
settlers.  They declined to take advantage of the disturbed
condition of the country during the wars of the Scots
independence, and made common cause with the bulk of the
nation.  Though John Comyn (d. 1300?), one of the competitors
for the throne, had considerable interests in the shire, his
claim received locally little support.  In 1296 Edward I. made
a triumphal march to the north to terrorize the more turbulent
nobles.  Next year Wilham Wallace surprised the English garrison
in Aberdeen, but failed to capture the castle.  In 1303 Edward
again visited the county, halting at the Castle of Kildrummy,
then in the possession of Robert Bruce, who shortly afterwards
became the acknowledged leader of the Scots and made Aberdeen
his headquarters for several months.  Despite the seizure of
Kildrummy Castle by the English in 1306, Bruce's prospects
brightened from 1308, when he defeated John Comyn, earl of
Buchan (d. 1313?), at Inverurie.  For a hundred years after
Robert Bruce's death (1329) there was intermittent anarchy
in the shire.  Aberdeen itself was burned by the English in
1336, and the re-settlement of the districts of Buchan and
Strathbogie occasioned constant quarrels On the part of the
dispossessed.  Moreover, the crown had embroiled itself
with some of the Highland chieftains, whose independence it
sought to abolish.  This policy culminated in the invasion of
Aberdeenshire by Donald, lord of the Isles, who was, however,
defeated at Harlaw, near Inverurie, by the earl of Mar in
1411.  In the 15th century two other leading county families
appeared, Sir Alexander Forbes being created Lord Eorbes
about 1442, and Sir Alexander Seton Lord Gordon in 1437 and
earl of Huntly in 1445.  Bitter feuds raged between these
families for a long period, but the Gordons reached the
height of their power in the first half of the 16th century,
when their domains, already vast, were enhanced by the
acquisition, through marriage, of the earldom of Sutherland
(1514).  Meanwhile commerce with the Low Countries, Poland
and the Baltic had grown apace, Campvere, near Flushing in
Holland, becoming the emporium of the Scottish traders, while
education was fostered by the foundation of King's College
at Aberdeen in 1497 (Marischal College followed a century
later).  At the Reformation so little intuition had the
clergy of the drift of opinion that at the very time that
religious structures were being despoiled in the south, the
building and decoration of churches went on in the shire.
The change was acquiesced in without much tumult, though
rioting took place in Aberdeen and St Machar's cathedral in
the city suffered damage.  The 4th earl of Huntly offered
some resistance, on behalf of the Catholics, to the influence
of Lord James Stuart, afterwards the Regent Murray, but
was defeated and killed at Corrichie on the hill of Fare in
1562.  As years passed it was apparent that Presbyterianism
was less generally acceptable than Episcopacy, of which system
Aberdeenshire remained for generations the stronghold in
Scotland.  Another crisis in ecclesiastical affairs arose in
1638, when the National Covenant was ordered to be subscribed,
a demand so grudgingly responded to that the marquis of
Montrose visited the shire in the following year to enforce
acceptance.  The Cavaliers, not being disposed to yield,
dispersed an armed gathering of Covenanters in the affair
called the Trot of Turriff (1639), in which the first blood
of the civil war was shed.  The Covenanters obtained the upper
hand in a few weeks, when Montrose appeared at the bridge
of Dee and compelled the surrender of Aberdeen, which had no
choice but to cast in its lot with the victors.  Montrose,
however, soon changed sides, and after defeating the Covenanters
under Lord Balfour of Burleigh (1644), delivered the city to
rapine.  He worsted the Covenanters again after a stiff
fight on the 2nd of July 1645, at Alford, a village in the
beautiful Howe of Alford.  Peace was temporarily restored
on the ``engagement', of the Scots commissioners to assist
Charles I. On his return from Holland in 1650 Charles II.
was welcomed in Aberdeen, but in little more than a year
General Monk entered the city at the head of the Cromwellian
regiments.  The English garrison remained till 1659, and
next year the Restoration was effusively hailed, and prelacy
was once more in the ascendant.  Most of the Presbyterians
conformed, but the Quakers, more numerous in the shire
and the adjoining county of Kincardine than anywhere else
in Scotland, were systematically persecuted.  After the
Revolution (1688) episcopacy passed under a cloud, but the
clergy, yielding to force majeure, gradually accepted the
inevitable, hoping, as long as Queen Anne lived, that prelacy
might yet be recognized as the national form of Church
government.  Her death dissipated these dreams, and as George
I., her successor, was antipathetic to the clergy, it happened
that Jacobitism and episcopalianism came to be regarded in the
shire as identical, though in point of fact the non-jurors as
a body never countenanced rebellion.  The earl of Mar raised
the standard of revolt in Braemar (6th of September 1715); a
fortnight later James was proclaimed at Aberdeen cross; the
Pretender landed at Peterhead on the 22nd of December, and
in February 1716 he was back again in France.  The collapse
of the first rising ruined many of the lairds, and when the
second rebellion occurred thirty years afterwards the county
in the main was apathetic, though the insurgents held Aberdeen
for five months, and Lord Lewis Gordon won a trifling victory
for Prince Charles Edward at Inverurie (23rd of December
1745).  The duke of Cumberland relieved Aberdeen at the end
of February 1746, and in April the Young Pretender was a
fugitive.  Thereafter the people devoted themselves to
agriculture, industry and commerce, which developed by leaps
and bounds, and, along with equally remarkable progress in
education, transformed the aspect of the shire and made the
community as a whole one of the most prosperous in Scotland.

See W. Watt, History of Aberdeen and Banff (Edinburgh,
1900); Collections for a History of the Shires of Aberdeen
and Banff. (edited by Dr Joseph Robertson, Spalding Club); Sir
A. Leith-Hay, Castles of Aberdeenshire (Aberdeen, 188R);
J; Davidson, Inverurie and the Earldom of the Garioch
(Edinburgh, 1878); Pratt, Buchan (rev. by) R. Anderson),
(Aberdeen, 1900); A. I. M'Connochie, Deeside (Aberdeen, 1895).

ABERDOUR, a village of Fifeshire, Scotland.  Pleasantly
situated on the shore of the Firth of Forth, 17 1/2 m.  N.W.
of Edinburgh by the North British railway and 7 m.  N.W. of
Leith by steamer, it is much resorted to for its excellent
sea-bathing.  There are ruins of a castle and an old decayed
church, which contains some fine Norman work.  About 3
m.  S.W. is Donibristle House, the seat of the earl of Murray
(Moray), and the scene of the murder (Feb. 7, 1592) of James,
2nd (Stuart) earl of Murray.  The island of Inchcolm, or
Island of Columba,  1/4 m. from the shore, is in the parish of
Aberdour.  As its name implies, its associations date back
to the time of Columba.  The primitive stone-roofed oratory
is supposed to have been a hermit's ceil.  The Augustinian
monastery was founded in 1123 by Alexander I. The buildings
are well preserved, consisting of a low square tower, church,
cloisters, refectory and small chapterhouse.  The island
of Columba was occasionally plundered by English and other
rovers, but in the 16th century it became the property of
Sir James Stuart, whose grandson became 2nd earl of Murray
by virtue of his marriage to the elder daughter of the 1st
earl.  From it comes the earl's title of Lord St Colme (1611).

ABERDOVEY (Aberdyfi: the Dyfi is the county frontier), a
seaside village of Merionethshire, North Wales, on the Cambrian
railway.  Pop. (1901) 1466.  It lies in the midst of beautiful
scenery, 4 m. from Towyn, on the N. bank of the Dyfi estuary,
commanding views of Snowdon, Cader Idris, Arran Mawddy and
Plynllmmon.  The Dyfi, here a mile broad, is crossed by a
ferry to Borth sands, whence a road leads to Aberystwyth.
The submerged ``bells of Aberdovey'' (since Seithennin ``the
drunkard'' caused the formation of Cardigan Bay) are famous
in a Welsh song.  Aberdovey is a health and bathing resort.

ABERFOYLE, a village and parish of Perthshire, Scotland, 34 1/4
m.  N. by W. of Glasgow by the North British railway.  Pop.
of parish (1901) 1052.  The village is situated at the base of
Craigmore (1271 ft. high) and on the Laggan, a head-water of the
Forth.  Since 1885, when the duke of Montrose constructed a
road over the eastern shoulder of Craigmore to join the older
road at tho entrance of the Trossachs pass, Aberfoyle has become
the alternauve route to the Trossachs and Loch Katrine.  Loch
Ard, about 2 m.  W. of LIberfoyle, lies 105 ft. above the
sea.  It is 3 m. long (including the narrows at the east end)
and 1 m. broad.  Towards the west end is Eilean Gorm (the
green isle), and near the north-western shore are the falls of
Ledard.  Two m.  N.W. is Loch Chon, a90 ft. above the sea,
1 1/4 m. long, and about  1/2 m. broad.  It drains by the Avon
Dhu to Loch Ard, which is drained in turn by the Laggan.  The
slate quarries on Craigmore are the Only industry in Aberfoyle.

ABERGAVENNY, a market town and municipal borough in the
northern parliamentary division of Monmouthshire, England, 14
m.  W. of Monmouth on the Great Western and the London and
North-Western railways.  Pop. (1901) 7795.  It is situated
at the junction of a small stream cailed the Gavenny with the
river Usk; and the site, almost surrounded by lofty hills,
is very beautiful.  The town was formerly walled, and has the
remains of a castle built soon after the conquest, frequently
the scene of border strife.  The church of St Mary belonged
originally to a Benedictine monastery founded early in the 12th
century.  The existing building, however, is Decorated and
Perpendicular, and contains a fine series of memorials of dates
from the 13th to the 17th century.  There is a free grammar
school, which till 1857 had a fellowship at Jesus College,
Oxford.  Breweries, ironworks, quarries, brick fields and
collieries in the neihbourhood are among the principal industrial
establishments.  Abergavenny was incorporated in 1899, and is
governed by a mayor, 4 aldermen and 12 councillors.  Area, 825 acres.

This was the Roman Gobannium, a small fort guarding the
road along the valley of the Usk and ensuring quiet among
the hill tribes.  There is practically no trace of this
fort.  Abergavenny (Bergavenny) grew up under the protection
of the lords of Abergavenny, whose title dated from William
I. Owing to its situation, the town was frequently embroiled
in the border warfare of the 12th and 13th centuries, and
Giraldus Cambrensis relates how in 1173 the castle was seized
by the Welsh.  Hamelyn de Baalun, first lord of Abergavenny,
founded the Benedictine priory, which was subsequently
endowed by William de Braose with a tenth of the profits
of the castle and town.  At the dissolution of the priory
part of this endowment went towards the foundation of a
free grammar school, the site itself passing to the Gunter
family.  During the Civil War prior to the siege of Ragban
Castle in 1645, Charles I. visited Abergavenny, and presided
in person over the trial of Sir Trevor Williams and other
parliamentarians.  In 1639 Abergavenny received a charter
of incorporation under the title of bailiff and burgesses.
A charter with extended privileges was drafted in 1657, but
appears never to have been enrolled or to have come into effect.
OV1ng to the refusal of the chief officers of the corporation
to take the oath of allegiance to William III. in 1688, the
charter was annullod, and the town subseunentlv declined in
prosperity.  The act of 27 Henry VIII., which provided that
llonmouth, as county town, should return one burgess to
parliament, further stated that other ancient Monmouthshire
boroughs were to contribute towards the payment of the
member.  In consequence of this clause Abergavenny on various
occasions shared in the election, the last instance being in
1685.  Reference to a market at Abergavenny is found in a charter
granted to the prior by William de Braose (d. r211).  The right
to hold two weekly markets and three yearly fairs, as hitherto
held, was confirmed in 1657.  Abergavenny was celebrated for
the production of Welsh flannel, and also for the manufacture,
whilst the fashion prevailed, of periwigs of goats, hair.

The title of Baron Abergavenny, in the Neville family, dates
from Edward Neville (d. 1476), who was the youngest son of
the 1st earl of Westmoreland by Joan Beaufort, daughter of
John of Gaunt.  He married the heiress of Richard, earl of
Worcester, whose father had inherited the castle and estate of
Abergavenny, and was summoned in 1392 to parliament as Lord
Bergavenny.  Edward Neville was summoned to parliament with
this title in 1450.  His direct male descendants ended in 1387
in Henry Neville, but a cousin, Edward Neville (d. 1622), was
confirmed in the barony in 1604.  From him it has descended
continuously, the title being increased to an earldom in
1784; and in 1876 William Nevill (sic) 5th earl (b. 1826),
an indefatigable and powerful supporter of the conseruative
party, was created 1st marquess of Abergavenny. (See NEVILLE.)

ABERIGH-MACKAY, GEORGE ROBERT (1848-1881), Anglo-Indian
writer, son of a Bengal chaplain, was born on the 25th
of July 1848, and was educated at Magdalen College School
and Cambridge University.  Entering the Indian education
department in 1870, he became professor of English literature
in Delhi College in 1873, tutor to the raja of Rutlam
1876, and principal of the Rajkumar College at Indore in
1877.  He is best known for his book Twenty-one Days in India
(1878--1879), a satire upon Anglo-Indian society and modes of
thought.  This book gave promise of a successful literary
Career, but the author died at the age of thirty-three.

ABERNETHY, JOHN (1680-1740), Irish Presbyterian divine,
was born at Coleraine, county Londonderry, where his father
was Nonconformist minister, on the 19th of October 1680.  In
his thirteenth year he entered the university of Glasgow, and
on concluding his course thore went on to Edinburgh, where
his intellectual and social attainments gained him a ready
entrance into the most cultured circles.  Returning home he
received licence to preach from his Presbytery before he was
twenty-one.  In 1701 he was urgently invited to accept charge
of an important congregation in Antrim; and after an interval
of two years, mostly spent in further study in Dublin, he
was ordained there on the 8th of August 1703.  Here he did
notable work, both as a debater in the synods and assemblies
of his church and as an evangelist.  In 1712 he lost his wife
(Susannah Jordan), and the loss desolated his life for many
years.  In 1717 he was invited to the congregation of Usher's
Quay, Dublin, and contemporaneously to what was called the
Old Congregation of Belfast.  The synod assigned him to
Dublin.  After careful consideration he declined to accede,
and remained at Antrim.  This refusal was regarded then as
ecclesisstical high-treason; and a controversy of the most
intense and disproportionate character followed, Abernethy
standing firm for religious freedom and repudiating the
sacerdotal assumptions of all ecclesiastical courts.  The
controversy and quarrel bears the name of the two camps in the
conflict, the ``Subscribers'' and the ``Non-subscribers.''
Out-and-out evangelical as (John Abernethy was, there can
be no question that he and his associates sowed the seeds
of that after-struggle (1821--1840) in which, under the
leadership of Dr Henry Cooke, the Arian and Socinian elements
of the Irish Presbyterian Church were thrown out.  Much of
what he contended for, and which the ``Subscribers'' opposed
bitterly, has been silently granted in the lapse of time.
In 1726 the ``Non-subscribers,'' spite of an almost wofully
pathetic pleading against separation by Abernethy, were cut
off, with due ban and solemnity, from the Irish Presbyterian
Church.  In 1730, although a ``Non-subscriber,'' he was
invited to Wood Street, Dublin, whither he removed.  In
1731 came on the greatest controversy in which Abernethy
engaged, viz. in relation to the Test Act nominally, but
practically on the entire question of tests and disabilities.
His stand was ``against all laws that, upon account of mere
differences of religious opinions and forms of worship,
excluded men of integrity and ability from serving their
country.'' He was nearly a century in advance of his age.
He had to reason with those who denied that a Roman Catholic
or Dissenter could be a ``man of integrity and ability.''
His Tracts---afterwards collected--did fresh service,
generations later, and his name is honoured by all who love
freedom of conscience and opinion.  He died in December 1740.

See Dr Duchal's Life, prefixed to Sermons (1762): Diary in
MS., 6 vols. 4to; Reid's Presbyterian Church in Ireland, iii. 234.

ABERNETHY, JOHN (1764-1831), English surgeon, grandson of
John Abernethy (see above), was born in London on the 3rd of
April 1764.  His father was a London merchant.  Educated at
Wolverhampton grammar school, he was apprenticed in 1779 to
Sir Charles Blicke (1745-1815), surgeon to St Bartholomew's
Hospital, London.  He attended the anatomical lectures of
Sir William Blizard (1743-1835) at the London Hospital,
and was early employed to assist as ``demonstrator'';
he also attended Percival Pott's surgical lectures at St
Bartholomew's Hospital, as well as the lectures of John
Hunter.  On Pott's resignation of the office of surgeon of St
Bartholomew's, Sir Charles Blicke, who was assistant-surgeon,
succeeded him, and Abernethy was elected assistant-surgeon in
1787.  In this capacity he began to give lectures at his
house in Bartholomew Close, which were so well attended
that the governors of the hospital built a regular theatre
(1790-1791), and Abernethy thus became the founder of the
distinguished school of St Bartholomew's.  He held the office
of assistant-surgeon of the hospital for the long period of
twenty-eight years, till, in 1815, he was elected principal
surgeon.  He had before that time been appointed lecturer in
anatomy to the Royal College of Surgeons (1814).  Abernethy
was not a great operator, though his name is associated with
the treatment of aneurism by ligature of the external iliac
artery.  His Surgical Observations on the Constitutional
Origin and Treatment of Local Diseases (1809)--known as ``My
Book,'' from the great frequency with which he referred his
patients to it, and to page 72 of it in particular, under that
name--was one of the earliest popular works on medical science,
He taught that local diseases were frequently the results
of disordered states of the digestive organs, and were to be
treated by purging and attention to diet.  As a lecturer he was
exceedingly attractive, and his success in teaching was largely
attributable to the persuasiveness with which he enunciated his
views.  It has been said, however, that the influence he exerted
on those who attended his lectures was not beneficial in this
respect, that his opinions were delivered so dogmatically,
and all who differed from him were disparaged and denounced
so contemptuously, as to repress instead of stimulating
inquiry.  The celebrity he attained in his practice was due
not only to his great professional skill, but also in part
to the singularity of his manners.  He used great plainness
of speech in his intercourse with his patients, treating them
often brusquely and sometimes even rudely.  In the circle of
his family and friends he was courteous and affectionate; and
in all his dealings he was strictly just and honourable.  He
resigned his position at St Bartholomew's Hospital in 1827,
and died at his residence at Enfield on the 20th of April 1831.

A collected edition of his works was published in 1830.  A biography,
Memoirs of John Abernethy, by George Macilwain, appeared in 1853.

ABERRATION (Lat. ab, from or away, errare, to wander),
a deviation or wandering, especially used in the figurative
sense: as in ethics, a deviation from the truth; in pathology,
a mental derangement; in zoology and botany, abnormal
development or structure.  In optics, the word has two special
applications: (1) Aberration of Light, and (2) Aberration
in Optical Systems.  These subjects receive treatment below.

I. ABERIIATION OF LIGHT This astronomical phenomenon may
be defined as an apparent motion of the heavenly bodies; the
stars describing annually orbits more or less elliptical,
according to the latitude of the star; consequently at
any moment the star appears to be displaced from its true
position.  This apparent motion is due to the finite velocity
of light, and the progressive motion of the observer with the
earth, as it performs its yearly course about the sun.  It
may be familiarized by the following illustrations.  Alexis
Claude Clairaut gave this figure: Imagine rain to be falling
vertically, and a person carrying a thin perpendicular tube
to be standing on the ground.  If the bearer be stationary,
rain-drops will traverse the tube without touching its sides;
if, however, the person be walking, the tube must be inchued
at an angle varying as his velocity in order that the rain
may traverse the tube centrally. (J. J. L. de Lalande gave
the illustration of a roofed carriage with an open front: if
the carriage be stationary, no rain enters; if, however, it be
moying, rain enters at the front.  The ``umbrella', analogy
is possibly the best known figure.  When stationary, the most
efficient position in which to hold an umbrella is obviously
vertical; when walking, the umbrella must be held more and
more inclined from the vertical as the walker quickens his
pace.  Another familiar figure, pointed Out by P. L. M. de
Maupertuis, is that a sportsman, when aiming at a bird on the
wing, sights his gun some distance ahead of the bird, the
distance being proportional to the velocity of the bird.
The mechanical idea, named the parallelogram of velocities,
permits a ready and easy graphical representation of these
facts.  Reverting to the analogy of Clairaut, let AB (fig.
1) represent the velocity of the rain, and AC the relative
velocity of the person bearing the tube.  The diagonal AD
of the parallelogram, of which AB and AC are adjacent sides,
will represent, both in direction and magnitude, the motion
of the rain as apparent to the observer.  Hence for the
rain to centrally traverse the tube, this must be inclined
at an angle BAD to the vertical; this angle is conveniently
termed the aberration: due to these two motions.  The
umbrella analogy is similarly explained; the most efficient
position heing when the stick points along the resultant AD.

The discovery of the aberration of light in 1725, due to James
Bradley, is one of the most important in the whole domain of
astronomy.  That it wus unexpected there can be no doubt;
and it was only by extraordinary perseverance and perspicuity
that Bradley was able to explain it in 1727.  Its origin is
seated in attempts made to free from doubt the prevailing
discordances as to whether the stars possessed appreciable
parallaxes.  The Copernican theory of the solar system--that
the earth revolved annually about the sun--had received
confirmation by the observations of Galileo and Tycho
Brahe, and the mathematical investigations of Kepler and
Newton.  As early as 1573, Thomas Digges had suggested that
this theory should necessitate a parallactic shifting of
the stars, and, consequently, if such stellar parallaxes
existed, then the Copernican theory would receive additional
confirmation.  Many observers claimed to have determined such
parallaxes, but Tycho Brahe and G. B. Riccioll concluded
that they existed only in the minds of the observers, and
were due to instrumental and personal errors.  In 1680 Jean
Picard, in his Voyage d'Uranibourg, stated, as a result
of ten years' observations, that Polaris, or the Pole
Star, exhibited variations in its position amounting to 40"
annually; some astronomers endeavoured to explain this by
parallax, but these attempts were futile, for the motion
was at variance with that which parallax would occasion.  J.
Flamsteed, from measurements made in 1689 and succeeding
years with his mural quadrant, similarly concluded that the
declination of the Pole Star was 40" less in July than in
September.  R. Hooke, in 1674, pubilshed his observations of
g Draconis, a star of the second magnitude which passes
practically overhead in the latitude of London, and whose
observations are therefore singularly free from the complex
corrections due to astronomical refraction, and concluded
that this star was 23" more northerly in July than in October.

When James Bradley and Samuel Moineux entered this sphere of
astronomical research in 1725, there consequently prevailed
much uncertainty as to whether stellar parallaxes had been
observed or not; and it was with the intention of definitely
answering this question that these astronomers erected a large
telescope at the house of the latter at Kew. They determined
to reinvestigate the motion of g Draconis; the telescope,
constructed by George Graham (1675-1751), a celebrated
instrument-maker, was affixed to a vertical chimneystack,
in such manner as to permit a small oscillation of the
eyepiece, the amount of which, i.e. the deviation from the
vertical, was regulated and measured by the introduction
of a screw and a plumb-line.  The instrument was set up
in November 1725, and observations on g Draconis were
made on the 3rd, 5th, 11th, and 12th of December.  There
was apparently no shifting of the star, which was therefore
thought to be at its most southerly point.  On the 17th of
December, however, Bradley observed that the star was moving
southwards, a motion further shown by observations on the
20th.  These results were unexpected, and, in fact, inexplicable
by existing theories; and an examination of the telescope
showed that the observed anomalies were not due to instrumental
errors.  The observations were continued, and the star was
seen to continue its southerly course until March, when it
took up a position some 20" more southerly than its December
position.  After March it began to pass northwards, a motion
quite apuarent by the middle of April; in June it passed
at the same distance from the zenith as it did in December;
and in September it passed through its most northerly
position, the extreme range from north to south, i.e. the
angle between the March and September positions, being 40".

This motion is evidently not due to parallax, for, in this
case, the maximum range should be between the June and
December positions; neither was it due to observatiooal
errors.  Bradley and Molyneux discussed several hypotheses in
the hope of fixing the solution.  One hypothesis was: while
g Draconis was stationary, the plumb-line, from which
the angular measurements were made, varied; this would follow
if the axis of the earth varied.  The oscillation of the
earth's axis may arise in two distinct ways; distinguished
as ``nutation of the axis'' and ``variation of latitude.''
Nutation, the only form of oscillation imagined by Bradley,
postulates that while the earth's axis is fixed with respect
to the earth, i.e. the north and south poles occupy permanent
geographical positions, yet the axis is not directed towards
a fixed point in the heavens; variation of latitude, however,
is associated with the shifting of the axis within the earth,
i.e. the geographical position of the north pole varies.

Nutation of the axis would determine a similar apparent
motion for all stars: thus, all stars having the same polar
distance as g Draconis should exhibit the same apparent
motion after or before this star by a constant interval.
Many stars satisfy the condition of equality of polar distance
with that of g Draconis, but few were bright enough to
be observed in Molyneux's telescope.  One such star, however,
with a right ascension nearly equal to that of g Draconis,
but in thc opposite sense, was selected and kept under
observation.  This star was seen to possess an apparent
motion similar to that which would be a consequence of the
nutation of the earth's axis; but since its declination
varied only one half as much as in the case of g Draconis,
it was obvious that nutation did not supply the requisite
solution.  The question as to whether the motion was due to
an irregular distribution of the earth's atmosphere, thus
involving abnormal variations in the refractive index, was
also investigated; here, again, negative results were obtained.

Bradley had already perceived, in the case of the two stars
previously scrutinized, that the apparent difference of
declination from the maximum positions was nearly proportional
to the sun's distance from the equinoctial points; and he
reallzed the necessity for more observations before any
generalization could be attempted.  For this purpose he
repaired to the Rectory, Wanstead, then the residence of Mrs
Pound, the widow of his uncle James Pound, with whom he had
made many observations of the heavenly bodies.  Here he had set
up, on the 19th of August 1727, a more convenient telescope
than that at Kew, its range extending over 6 1/4 deg.  on each
side of the zenith, thus covering a far larger area of the
sky.  Two hundred stars in the British Catalogue of
Flamsteed traversed its field of view; and, of these, about
fifty were kept under close observation.  His conclusions
may be thus summatized: (1) only stars near the solstitial
colure had their maximum north and south positions when the
sun was near the equinoxes, (2) each star was at its maximum
positions when it passed the zenith at six o'clock morning
and evening (this he afterwards showed to be inaccurate, and
found the greatest change in declination to be proportional
to the latitude of the star), (3) the apparent motions of
all stars at about the same time was in the same direction.

A re-examination of his previously considered hypotheses as
to the cause of these phenomena was fruitless; the true theory
was ultimately discovered by a pure accident, comparable in
simplicity and importance with the association of a falling
apple with the discovery of the principle of universal
gravitation.  Sailing on the river Thames, Bradley repeatedly
observed the shifting of a vane on the mast as the boat altered
its courser and, having been assured that the motion of the
vane meant that the boat, and not the wind, had altered its
direction, he realized that the position taken up by the vane
was determined by the motion of the boat and the direction of the
wind.  The application of this observation to the phenomenon
which had so long perplexed him was not difficult, and, in
1727, he published his theory of the aberration of light--a
corner-stone of the edifice of astronomical science.  Let
S (fig. 2) be a star and the observer be carried along the
line AB; let SB be perpendicular to AB. If the observer be
stationary at B, the star will appear in the direction BS;
if, however, he traverses the distance BA in the same time
as light passes from the star to his eye, the star will E
appear in the direction AS. Since, however, the observer is
not conscious of his own translatory motion with the earth
in its orbit, the star appears to have a displacement which
is at all times parallel to the motion of the observer.  To
generalize this, let S (fig. 3) be the sun, ABCD the earth's
orbit, and s the true position of a star.  When the earth
is at A, in consequence of aberration, the star is displaced
to a point a, its displacement sa being parallel to the
earth's motion at A; when the earth is at B, the star appears
at b; and so on throughout an orbital revolution of the
earth.  Every star, therefore, describes an apparent orbit,
which, if the line joining the sun and the star be perpendicular
to the plane ABCD, will be exactly similar to that of the
earth, i.e. almost a circle.  As the star decreases in
latitude, this circle will be viewed more and more obliquely,
becoming a flatter and flatter ellipse until, with zero
latitude, it degenerates into a straight line (fig. 4).

The major axis of any such aberrational ellipse is always parallel
to AC, i.e. the ecliptic, and since it is equal to the ratio
of the velocity of light to the velocity of the earth, it is
necessarily constant.  This constant length subtends an angle
of about 40" at the earth; the ``constant of aberration'' is
half this angle.  The generally accepted value is 20.445", due
to Struve; the last two figures are uncertain, and all that can
be definitely affirmed is that the value lies between 20.43" and
20.48".  The minor axis, on the other hand, is not constant,
but, as we have already seen, depends on the latitude, being
the product of the major axis into the sine of the latitude.

Assured that his explanation was true, Bradley corrected his
observations for aberration, but he found that there still
remained a residuum which was evidently not a parallax, for
it did not exhibit an annual cycle.  He reverted to his early
idea of a nutation of the earth's axis, and was rewarded by the
discovery that the earth did possess such an osculation (see
ASTRONOMY).  Bradley recognized the fact that the experimental
determination of the aberration constant gave the ratio of the
velocities of light and of the earth; hence, if the velocity
of the earth be known, the velocity of light is determined.
In recent years much attention has been given to the nature
of the propagation of light from the heavenly bodies to the
earth, the argument generally being centred about the relative
effect of the motion of the aether on the velocity of light.
This subject is discussed in the articles AETHER and LIGHT.

REFERENCES.--A detailed account of Bradley's work is
given in S. Rigaud, Memoirs of Bradley (1832), and in
Charles Hutton, Mathematical and Philosophical Dictionary
(1795); a particularly clear and lucid account is given
in H. H. Turner, Astronomical Discovery (1904).  The
subject receives treatment in all astronomical works.

II. ABERRIATION IN OPTICAL SYSTEMS Aberration in optical
systems, i.e. in lenses or mirrors or a series of them,
may be defined as the non-concurrence of rays from the
points of an object after transmission through the system;
it happens generally that an image formed by such a system
is irregular, and consequently the correction of optical
systems for aberration is of fundamental importance to the
instruunent-maker.  Reference should he made to the articles
REFLEXION, REFRACTION and CAUSTIC for the general characters
of reflected and refracted rays (the article LENS considers
in detail the properties of this instrument, and should also
be consulted); in this article will be discussed the nature,
varieties and modes of aberrations mainly from the practical
point of view, i.e. that of the optical-instrument maker.

Aberrations may be divided in two classes: chromatic (Gr.
oroma, colour) aberrations, caused by the composite
nature of the light generally applied (e.g. white light),
which is dispersed by refraction, and monochromatic (Gr.
monos, one) aberrations produced without dispersion.
Consequently the monochromatic class includes the aberrations
at reflecting surfaces of any coloured light, and at refracting
surfaces of monochromatic or light of single wave length.

(a) Monochromatic Aberration. The elementary theory of optical
systems leads to the theorem; Rays of light proceeding from
any ``object point,' unite in an ``image point''; and therefore
an ``object space'' is reproduced in an ``image space.'' The
introduction of simple auxiliary terms, due to C. F. Gauss
(Dioptrische Untersuchungen, Gottingen, 1841), named the
focal lengths and focal planes, permits the determination
of the image of any object for any system (see LENS). The
Gaussian theory, however, is only true so long as the angles
made by all rays with the optical axis (the symmetrical axis
of the system) are infinitely small, i.e. with infinitesimal
objects, images and lenses; in practice these conditions are
not realized, and the images projected by uncorrected systems
are, in general, ill defined and often completely blurred,
if the aperture or field of view exceeds certain limits.
The investigations of James Clerk Maxwell (Phil.Mag., 1856;
Quart.  Journ.  Math., 1858, and Ernst Abbe1) showed that
the properties of these reproductions, i.e. the relative
position .and magnitude of the images, are not special
properties of optical systems, but necessary consequences of
the supposition (in Abbe) of the reproduction of all points
of a space in image points (Maxwell assumes a less general
hypothesis), and are independent of the manner in which the
reproduction is effected.  These authors proved, however, that
no optical system can justify these suppositions, since they
are contradictory to the fundamental laws of reflexion and
refraction.  Consequently the Gaussian theory only supplies
a convenient method of approximating to reality; and no
constructor would attempt to realize this unattainable ideal.
All that at present can be attempted is, to reproduce a single
plane in another plane; but even this has not been altogether
satisfactorily accomplished, aberrations always occur, and
it is improbable that these will ever be entirely corrected.

This, and related general questions, have been treated--besides
the above-mentioned authors--by M. Thiesen (Berlin.
Akad.  Sitzber., 1890, xxxv. 799; Berlin.Phys.Ges.
Verb., 1892) and H. Bruns (Leipzig. Math.  Phys.
Ber., 1895, xxi. 325) by means of Sir W. R. Hamilton's
``characteristic function'' (Irish Acad.  Trans., ``Theory
of Systems of Rays,,' 1828, et seq.).  Reference may also
be made to the treatise of Czapski-Eppenstein, pp. 155-161.

A review of the simplest cases of aberration will now be
given. (1) Aberration of axial points (Spherical aberration
in the restricted sense).  If S (fig.5) be any optical
system, rays proceeding from an axis point O under an angle
u1 will unite in the axis point O'1; and those under an
angle u2 in the axis point O'2.  If there be refraction
at a collective spherical surface, or through a thin positive
lens, O'2 will lie in front of O'1 so long as the angle
u2 is greater than u1 (``under correction''); and
conversely with a dispersive surface or lenses (``over
correction'').  The caustic, in the first case, resembles
the sign > (greater than); in the second K (less than).  If
the angle u1 be very small, O'1 is the Gaussian image;
and O'1 O'2 is termed the ``longitudinal aberration,''
and O'1R the ``lateral aberration'' of the pencils with
aperture u2. If the pencil with the angle u2 be that
of the maximum aberration of all the pencils transmitted,
then in a plane perpendicular to the axis at O'1 there is
a circular ``disk of confusion'' of radius O'1R, and in a
parallel plane at O'2 another one of radius O'2R2; between
these two is situated the ``disk of least confusion.''

The largest opening of the pencils, which take part in the
reproduction of O, i.e. the angle u, is generally determined
by the margin of one of the lenses or by a hole in a thin
plate placed between, before, or behind the lenses of the
system.  This hole is termed the ``stop'' or ``diaphragm'';
Abbe used the term ``aperture stop'' for both the hole and
the limiting margin of the lens.  The component S1 of the
system, situated between the aperture stop and the object
O, projects an image of the diaphragm, termed by Abbe the
``entrance pupil''; the ``exit pupil'' is the image formed
by the component S2, which is placed behind the aperture
stop.  All rays which issue from O and pass through the aperture
stop also pass through the entrance and exit pupils, since these
are images of the aperture stop.  Since the maximum aperture
of the pencils issuing from O is the angle u subtended by the
entrance pupil at this point, the magnitude of the aberration
will be determined by the position and diameter of the entrance
pupil.  If the system be entirely behind the aperture stop,
then this is itself the entrance pupil (``front stop'');
if entirely in front, it is the exit pupil (``back stop'').

If the object point be infinitely distant, all rays received
by the first member of the system are parallel, and their
intersections, after traversing the system, vary according
to their ``perpendicular height of incidence,'' i.e. their
distance from the axis.  This distance replaces the angle
u in the preceding considerations; and the aperture, i.e.
the radius of the entrance pupil, is its maximum value.

(2) Aberration of elements, i.e. smallest objects at right
angles to the axis.--If rays issuing from O (fig. 5) be
concurrent, it does not follow that points in a portion
of a plane perpendicular at O to the axis will be also
concurrent, even if the part of the plane be very small.
With a considerable aperture, the neighbouring point N will
be reproduced, but attended by aberrations comparable in
magnitude to ON. These aberrations are avoided if, according to
Abbe, the ``sine condition,'' sin u'1/sin u1=sin u'2jsin
u2, holds for all rays reproducing the point O. If the
object point O be infinitely distant, u1 and u2 are
to be replaced by pi and h2, the perpendicular heights of
incidence; the ``sine condition', then becomes sin u,1jh1
sin u'2/h2. A system fulfilling this condition and free
from spherical aberration is called ``aplanatic'' (Greek
a-, privative, plann, a wandering).  This word was
first used by Robert Blair (d. 1828), professor of practical
astronomy at Edinburgh University, to characterize a superior
achromatism, and, subsequently, by many writers to denote
freedom from spherical aberration.  Both the aberration of axis
points, and the deviation from the sine condition, rapidly
increase in most (uncorrected) systems with the aperture.

(3) Aberration of lateral object points (points beyond the
axis) with narrow pencils.  Astigmatism.---A point O (fig.
6) at a finite distance from the, axis (or with an infinitely
distant object, a point which subtends a finite angle at the
system) is, in general, even then not sharply reproduced, if
the pencil of rays issuing from it and traversing the system
is made infinitely narrow by reducing the aperture stop; such
a pencil consists of the rays which can pass from the object
point through the now infinitely small entrance pupil.  It
is seen (ignoring exceptional cases) that the pencil does
not meet he refracting or reflecting surface at right angles;
therefore it is astigmatic (Gr. a-, privative, stigmia, a
point).  Naming the central ray passing through the entrance
pupil the ``axis of the pencil,' or ``principal ray,'' we
can say: the rays of the pencil intersect, not in one point,
but in two focal lines, which we can assume to be at right
angles to the principal ray; of these, one lies in the plane
containing the principal ray and the axis of the system,
i.e. in the ``first principal section'' or ``meridional
section,', and the other at right angles to it, i.e. in the
second principal section or sagittal section.  We receive,
therefore, in no single intercepting plane behind the system,
as, for example, a focussing screen, an image of the object
point; on the other hand, in each of two planes lines O' and
O" are separately formed (in neighbouring planes ellipses are
formed), and in a plane between O' and O" a circle of least
confusion.  The interval O'O", termed the astigmatic difference,
increases, in general, with the angle W made by the principal
ray OP with the axis of the system, i.e. with the field of
view.  Two ``astigmatic image surfaces'' correspond to one
object plane; and these are in contact at the axis point; on
the one lie the focal lines of the first kind, on the other
those of the second.  Systems in which the two astigmatic
surfaces coincide are termed anastigmatic or stigmatic.

Sir Isaac Newron was probably the discoverer of astigmation;
the position of the astigmatic image lines was determined by
Thomas Young (A Course of Lectures on Natural Philosophy,
1807); and the theory has been recently developed by A.
Gullstrand (Skand. Arch. f. physiol., 1890, 2, p. 269;
Allgemeine Theorie der monochromat. Aberrationen, etc.,
Upsala, 1900; Arch. f.  Ophth., 1901, 53, pp. 2, 185).  A
bibliography by P. Culmann is given in M. von Rohr's Die
Bilderzeugung in opitschen Instrumenten (Berlin, 1904).

(4) Aberration of lateral object points with broad pencils.
Coma. ---By opening the stop wider, similar deviations arise
for lateral points as have been already discussed for axial
points; but in this case they are much more complicated.
The course of the rays in the meridional section is no longer
symmetrical to the principal ray of the pencil; and on an
intercepting plane there appears, instead of a luminous
point, a patch of light, not symmetrical about a point, and
often exhibiting a resemblance to a comet having its tail
directed towards or away from the axis.  From this appearance
it takes its name.  The unsymmetrical form of the meridional
pencil--formerly the only one considered--is coma in the
narrower sense only; other errors of coma have been treated by
A. Konig and M. von Rohr (op. cit.), and more recently by
A. Gullstrand (op. cit.; Ann. d.  Phys., 1905, 18, p. 941).

(5) Curvature of the field of the image.---If the above errors
be eliminated, the two astigmatic surfaces united, and a sharp
image obtained with a wide aperture--there remains the necessity
to correct the curvature of the image surface, especially when
the image is to be received upon a plane surface, e.g. in
photography.  In most cases the surface is concave towards the system.

(6) Distortion of the image.--If now the image be sufficiently
sharp, inasmuch as the rays proceeding from every object point
meet in an image point of satisfactory exactitude, it may happen
that the image is distorted, i.e. not sufficiently like the
object.  This error consists in the different parts of the
object being reproduced with different magnifications; for
instance, the inner parts may differ in greater magnification
than the outer (``barrel-shaped distortion''), or conversely
(``cushion-shaped distortion'') (see fig. 7). Systems free
of this aberration are called ``orthoscopic'' (orthos ,
right, skopein to look).  This aberration is quite distinct
from that of the sharpness of reproduction; in unsharp,
reproduction, the question of distortion arises if only parts of
the object can be recognized in the figure.  If, in an unsharp
image, a patch of light corresponds to an object point, the
``centre of gravity'' of the patch may be regarded as the image
point, this being the point where the plane receiving the
image, e.g. a focussing screen, intersects the ray passing
through the middle of the stop.  This assumption is justified
if a poor image on the focussing screen remains stationary
when the aperture is diminished; in practice, this generally
occurs.  This ray, named by Abbe a ``principal ray'' (not to be
confused with the ``principal rays'' of the Gaussian theory),
passes through the centre of the enttance pupil before the first
refraction, and the centre of the exit pupil after the last
refraction.  From this it follows that correctness of drawing
depends solely upon the principal rays; and is independent
of the sharpness or curvature of the image field.  Referring
to fig. 8, we have O'Q'/OQ = a' tan w'/a tan w = 1/N,
where N is the ``scale'' or magnification of the image.  For
N to be constant for all values of w, a' tan w'/a tan
w must also be constant.  If the ratio a'/a be sufficiently
constant, as is often the case, the above relation reduces
to the ``condition of Airy,'' i.e. tan w'/ tan w= a
constant.  This simple relation (see Camb.  Phil.  Trans.,
1830, 3, p. 1) is fulfilled in all systems which are symmetrical
with respect to their diaphragm (briefly named ``symmetrical
or holosymmetrical objectives''), or which consist of two like,
but different-sized, components, placed from the diaphragm
in the ratio of their size, and presenting the same curvature
to it (hemisymmetrical objectives); in these systems tan
w' / tan w = 1. The constancy of a'/a necessary for
this relation to hold was pointed out by R. H. Bow (Brit.
Journ.  Photog., 1861), and Thomas Sutton (Photographic
Notes, 1862); it has been treated by O. Lummer and by M. von
Rohr (Zeit. f.  Instrumentenk., 1897, 17, and 1898, 18, p. 4).
It requires the middle of the aperture stop to be reproduced in
the centres of the entrance and exit pupils without spherical
aberration.  M. von Rohr showed that for systems fulfilling
neither the Airy nor the Bow-Sutton condition, the ratio a'
tan w'/a tan w will be constant for one distance of the
object.  This combined condition is exactly fulfilled
by holosymmetrical objectives reproducing with the scale
1, and by hemisymmetrical, if the scale of reproduction
be equal to the ratio of the sizes of the two components.

Analytic Treatment of Aberrations.---The preceding review
of the several errors of reproduction belongs to the ``Abbe
theory of aberrations,'' in which definite aberrations are
discussed separately; it is well suited to practical needs, for
in the construction of an optical instrument certain errors are
sought to be eliminated, the selection of which is justified by
experience.  In the mathematical sense, however, this selection
is arbitrary; the reproduction of a finite object with a finite
aperture entails, in all probability, an infinite number of
aberrations.  This number is only finite if the object and
aperture are assumed to be ``infinitely small of a certain
order''; and with each order of infinite smallness, i.e. with
each degree of approximation to reality (to finite objects and
apertures), a certain number of aberrations is associated.  This
connexion is only supplied by theories which treat aberrations
generally and analytically by means of indefinite series.

A ray proceeding from an object point O (fig. 9) can be defined
by the co-ordinates (x, e).  Of this point O in an object
plane I, at right angles to the axis, and two other co-ordinates
(x, y), the point in which the ray intersects the entrance
pupil, i.e. the plane II. Similarly the corresponding image
ray may be defined by the points (x', e'), and (x',
y'), in the planes I' and II'. The origins of these four
plane co-ordinate systems may be collinear with the axis
of the optical system; and the corresponding axes may be
parallel.  Each of the four co-ordinates x', e', x', y'
are functions of x, e, x, y; and if it be assumed that the
field of view and the aperture be infinitely small, then x,
e, x, y are of the same order of infinitesimals; consequently
by expanding x', e', x', y' in ascending powers of x,
e, x, y, series are obtained in which it is only necessary
to consider the lowest powers.  It is readily seen that if the
optical system be symmetrical, the orqins of the co-ordinate
systems collinear with the optical axis and the corresponding
axes parallel, then by changing the signs of x, e, x,
y, the values x', e', x', y' must likewise change their
sign, but retain their arithmetical values; this means that the
series are restricted to odd powers of the unmarked variables.

The nature of the reproduction consists in the rays proceeding
from a point O being united in another point O'; in general,
this will not be the case, for x', e' vary if x, e be
constant, but x, y variable.  It may be assumed that the
planes I' and II' are drawn where the images of the planes
I and II are formed by rays near the axis by the ordinary
Gaussian rules; and by an extension of these rules, not,
however, corresponding to reality, the Gauss image point
O'0, with co-ordinates x'0, e'0, of the point O at
some distance from the axis could be constructed.  Writing
Dx'=x'-x'0 and De'=e'-e'0, then Dx' and
De' are the aberrations belonging to x, e and x, y,
and are functions of these magnitudes which, when expanded in
series, contain only odd powers, for the same reasons as given
above.  On account of the aberrations of all rays which
pass through O, a patch of light, depending in size on
the lowest powers of x, e, x, y which the aberrations
contain, will be formed in the plane I'. These degrees,
named by (J. Petzval (Bericht uber die Ergebnisse einiger
dioptrischer Untersuchnungen, Buda Pesth, 1843; Akad.
Sitzber., Wien, 1857, vols. xxiv. xxvi.) ``the numerical
orders of the image,'' are consequently only odd powers; the
condition for the formation of an image of the mth order
is that in the series for Dx' and De' the coefficients
of the powers of the 3rd, 5th . . . (m-2)th degrees must
vanish.  The images of the Gauss theory being of the third
order, the next problem is to obtain an image of 5th order,
or to make the coefficients of the powers of 3rd degree
zero.  This necessitates the satisfying of five equations;
in other words, there are five alterations of the 3rd order,
the vanishing of which produces an image of the 5th order.

The expression for these coefficients in terms of the constants
of the optical system, i.e. the radii, thicknesses, refractive
indices and distances between the lenses, was solved by L.
Seidel (Astr. Nach., 1856, p. 289); in 1840, J. Petzval
constructed his portrait objective, unexcelled even at the present
day, from similar calculations, which have never been published
(see M. von Rohr, Theorie und Geschichte des photographischen
Objectivs, Berlin, 1899, p. 248).  The theory was elaborated
by S. Finterswalder (Munchen. Acad.  Abhandl., 1891,
17, p. 519), who also published a posthumous paper of Seidel
containing a short view of his work (Munchen.  Akad.
Sitrber., 1898, 28, p. 395); a simpler form was given by A.
Kerber (Beitrage zur Dioptrik, Leipzig, 1895-6-7-8-9).  A.
Konig and M. von Rohr (see M. von Rohr, Die Bilderzeugung
in optischen Instrumenten, pp. 317-323) have represented
Kerber's method, and have deduced the Seidel formulae from
geometrical considerations based on the Abbe method, and have
interpreted the analytical results geometrically (pp. 212-316).

The aberrations can also be expressed by means of the
"characteristic function'' of the system and its differential
coefficients, instead of by the radii, &c., of the lenses;
these formulae are not immediately applicable, but give,
however, the relation between the number of aberrations and the
order.  Sir William Rowan Hamilton (British Assoc.  Report,
1833, p. 360) thus derived the aberrations of the third order;
and in later times the method was pursued by Clerk Maxwell
(Proc.  London Math.  Soc., 1874--1875; (see also the treatises
of R. S. Heath and L. A. Herman), M. Thiesen (Berlin. Akad.
Sitzber., 1890, 35, p. 804), H. Bruns (Leipzig.  Math.
Phys.  Ber., 1895, 21, p. 410), and particularly successfully
by K. Schwartzschild (Gottingen.  Akad.  Abhandl., 1905,
4, No. 1), who thus discovered the aberrations of the 5th
order (of which there are nine), and possibly the shortest
proof of the practical (Seidel) formulae.  A. Gullstrand (vide
supra, and Ann. d.  Phys., 1905, 18, p. 941) founded his
theory of aberrations on the differential geometry of surfaces.

The aberrations of the third order are: (1) aberration of the
axis point; (2) aberration of points whose distance from the
axis is very small, less than of the third order---the deviation
from the sine condition and coma here fall together in one class;
(3) astigmatism; (4) curvature of the field; (5) distortion.

(1) Aberration of the third order of axis points is dealt with
in all text-books on optics.  It is important for telescope
objectives, since their apertures are so small as to permit
higher orders to be neglected.  For a single lens of very
small thickness and given power, the aberration depends upon
the ratio of the radii r:r', and is a minimum (but never
zero) for a certain value of this ratio; it varies inversely
with the refractive index (the power of the lens remaining
constant).  The total aberration of two or more very thin lenses
in contact, being the sum of the individual aberrations, can be
zero.  This is also possible if the lenses have the same algebraic
sign.  Of thin positive lenses with n=1.5, four are necessary
to correct spherical aberration of the third order.  These
systems, however, are not of great practical importance.  In
most cases, two thin lenses are combined, one of which has
just so strong a positive aberration (``under-correction,''
vide supra) as the other a negative; the first must be a
positive lens and the second a negative lens; the powers,
however: may differ, so that the desired effect of the lens is
maintained.  It is generally an advantage to secure a great
refractive effect by several weaker than by one high-power
lens.  By one, and likewise by several, and even by an
infinite number of thin lenses in contact, no more than two
axis points can be reproduced without aberration of the third
order.  Freedom from aberration for two axis points, one of which
is infinitely distant, is known as ``Herschel's condition.''
All these rules are valid, inasmuch as the thicknesses and
distances of the lenses are not to be taken into account.

(2) The condition for freedom from coma in the third order
is also of importance for telescope objectives; it is
known as ``Fraunhofer's condition.'' (4) After eliminating
the aberration On the axis, coma and astigmatism, the
relation for the flatness of the field in the third order is
expressed by the ``Petzval equation,'' S1/r(n'-n) =
0, where r is the radius of a refracting surface, n
and n' the refractive indices of the neighbouring media,
and S the sign of summation for all refracting surfaces.

Practical Elimination of Aberrations.---The existence of
an optical system, which reproduces absolutely a finite plane
on another with pencils of finite aperture, is doubtful; but
practical systems solve this problem with an accuracy which
mostly suffices for the special purpose of each species of
instrument.  The problem of finding a system which reproduces
a given object upon a given plane with given magnification
(in so far as aberrations must be taken into account) could
be dealt with by means of the approximation theory; in most
cases, however, the analytical difficulties are too groat.
Solutions, however, have been obtained in special cases (see
A. Konig in M. von Rohr's Die Bilderzeugung, p. 373; K.
Schwarzschild, Gottingen.  Akad. Abhandl., 1905, 4, Nos.
2 and 3). At the present time constructors almost always employ
the inverse method: they compose a system from certain, often
quite personal experiences, and test, by the trigonometrical
calculation of the paths of several rays, whether the system
gives the desired reproduction (examples are given in A.
Gleichen, Lehrbuch der geometrischen Optik, Leipzig and Berlin,
1902).  The radii, thicknesses and distances are continually
altered until the errors of the image become sufficiently
small.  By this method only certain errors of reproduction are
investigated, especially individual members, or all, of those named
above.  The analytical approximation theory is often employed
provisionally, since its accuracy does not generally suffice.

In order to render spherical aberration and the deviation from
the sine condition small throughout the whole aperture, there
is given to a ray with a finite angle of aperture u* (width
infinitely distant objects: with a finite height of incidence
h*) the same distance of intersection, and the same sine
ratio as to one neighbouring the axis (u* or h* may not be
much smaller than the largest aperture U or H to be used in the
system).  The rays with an angle of aperture smaller than
u* would not have the same distance of intersection and
the same sine ratio; these deviations are called ``zones,''
and the constructor endeavours to reduce these to a minimum.
The same holds for the errors depending upon the angle of
the field of view, w: astigmatism, curvature of field
and distortion are eliminated for a definite value, w*,
``zones of astigmatism, curvature of field and distortion,'
attend smaller values of w.  The practical optician names
such systems: ``corrected for the angle of aperture u*
(the height of incidence h*) or the angle of field of
view w*.'' Spherical aberration and changes of the sine
ratios are often represented graphically as functions of the
aperture, in the same way as the deviations of two astigmatic
image surfaces of the image plane of the axis point are
represented as functions of the angles of the field of view.

The final form of a practical system consequently rests
on compromise; enlargement of the aperture results in
a diminution of the available field of view, and vice
versa.  The following may be regarded as typical:--(1)
Largest aperture; necessary corrections are--for the axis
point, and sine condition; errors of the field of view are
almost disregarded; example-- high-power microscope objectives.
(2) Largest field of view; necessary corrections are--for
astigmatism, curvature of field and distortion; errors of
the aperture only slightly regarded; examples--photographic
widest angle objectives and oculars.  Between these extreme
examples stands the ordinary photographic objective: the
portrait objective is corrected more with regard to aperture;
objectives for groups more with regard to the field of
view. (3) Telescope objectives have usually not very large
apertures, and small fields of view; they should, however,
possess zones as small as possible, and be built in the simplest
manner.  They are the best for analytical computation.

(b) Chromatic or Colour Aberration. In optical systems
composed of lenses, the position, magnitude and errors
of the image depend upon the refractive indices of the
glass employed (see LENS, and above, ``Monochromatic
Aberration'').  Since the index of refraction varies with
the colour or wave length of the light (see DISPERSION),
it follows that a system of lenses (uncorrected) projects
images of different colours in somewhat different places
and sizes and with different aberrations; i.e. there are
``chromatic differences'' of the distances of intersection,
of magnifications, and of monochromatic aberrations.  If
mixed light be employed (e.g. white light) all these images
are formed; and since they are ail ultimately intercepted
by a plane (the retina of the eye, a focussing screen of a
camera, &c.), they cause a confusion, named chromatic
aberration; for instance, instead of a white margin on a dark
background, there is perceived a coloured margin, or narrow
spectrum.  The absence of this error is termed achromatism,
and an optical system so corrected is termed achromatic.
A system is said to be ``chromatically under-corrected''
when it shows the same kind of chromatic error as a thin
positive lens, otherwise it is said to be ``over-corrected.''

If, in the first place, monochromatic aberrations be neglected
---in other words, the Gaussian theory be accepted---then
every reproduction is determined by the positions of the focal
planes, and the magnitude of the focal lengths, or if the focal
lengths, as ordinarily happens, be equal, by three constants of
reproduction.  These constants are determined by the data
of the system (radii, thicknesses, distances, indices, &c.,
of the lenses); therefore their dependence on the refractive
index, and consequently on the colour, are calculable (the
formulae are given in Czapski-Eppenstein, Grundzuge der
Theorie der optischen Instrumente (1903, p. 166).  The
refractive indices for different wave lengths must be known
for each kind of glass made use of.  In this manner the
conditions are maintained that any one constant of reproduction
is equal for two different colours, i.e. this constant is
achromatized.  For example, it is possible, with one thick
lens in air, to achromatize the position of a focal plane of
the magnitude of the focal length.  If all three constants
of reproduction be achromatized, then the Gaussian image for
all distances of objects is the same for the two colours,
and the system is said to be in ``stable achromatism.''

In practice it is more advantageous (after Abbe) to determine
the chromatic aberration (for instance, that of the distance
of intersection) for a fixed position of the object, and
express it by a sum in which each component conlins the amount
due to each refracting surface (see Czapski-Eppenstein, op.
cit. p. 170; A. Konig in M. v.  Rohr's collection, Die
Bilderzeugung, p. 340).  In a plane containing the image point
of one colour, another colour produces a disk of confusion;
this is similar to the confusion caused by two ``zones'' in
spherical aberration.  For infinitely distant objects the
radius Of the chromatic disk of confusion is proportional to
the linear aperture, and independent of the focal length (vide
supra, ``Monochromatic Aberration of the Axis Point''); and
since this disk becomes the less harmful with au increasing
image of a given object, or with increasing focal length,
it follows that the deterioration of the image is propor-,
tional to the ratio of the aperture to the focal length,
i.e. the ``relative aperture.'' (This explains the gigantic
focal lengths in vogue before the discovery of achromatism.)

Examples.--(a) In a very thin lens, in air, only one constant
of reproduction is to be observed, since the focal length and
the distance of the focal point are equal.  If the refractive
index for one colour be n, and for another n+dn, and the
powers, or reciprocals of the focal lengths, be f and f + d
f, then (1) df/f = dn/(n-1) = 1/n; dn is called
the dispersion, and n the dispersive power of the glass.

(b) Two thin lenses in contact: let f1 and f2 be
the powers corresponding to the lenses of refractive indices
n1 and n2 and radii r'1, r"1, and r'2,
r"2 respectively; let f denote the total power, and d
f, dn1, dn2 the changes of f, n1, and n2
with the colour.  Then the following relations hold:--

(2) f = f1-f2== (n1 - 1)(1/r'1-1/r''1) +(n2-1)(1/
r'2 - 1/r''2) = (n1 - 1)k1 + (n2 - 1)k2; and

(3) df = k1dn1 + k2dn2.
For achromatism df = 0, hence, from (3),

(4) k1/k2 = -dn2 / dn1, or f1/f2 = -n1/
n2.  Therefore f1 and f2 must have different algebraic
signs, or the system must be composed of a collective and a
dispersive lens.  Consequently the powers of the two must be
different (in order that f be not zero (equation 2)), and
the dispersive powers must also be different (according to 4).

Newton failed to perceive the existence of media of
different dispersive powers required by achromatism;
consequently he constructed large reflectors instead of
refractors.  James Gregory and Leonhard Euler arrived at the
correct view from a false conception of the achromatism of
the eye; this was determined by Chester More Hall in 1728,
Klingenstierna in 1754 and by Dollond in 1757, who constructed
the celebrated achromatic telescopes. (See TELESCOPE.)

Glass with weaker dispersive power (greater v) is named
``crown glass''; that with greater dispersive power, ``flint
glass.'' For the construction of an achromatic collective lens
(f positive) it follows, by means of equation (4), that a
collective lens I. of crown glass and a dispersive lens II. of
flint glass must be chosen; the latter, although the weaker,
corrects the other chromatically by its greater dispersive
power.  For an achromatic dispersive lens the converse must be
adopted.  This is, at the present day, the ordinary type,
e.g., of telescope objective (fig. 10); the values of
the four radii must satisfy the equations (2) and (4). Two
other conditions may also be postulated: one is always the
elimination of the aberration on the axis; the second either
the ``Herschel'' or ``Fraunhofer Condition,'' the latter being
the best vide supra, ``Monochromatic Aberration'').  In
practice, however, it is often more useful to avoid the second
condition by making the lenses have contact, i.e. equal
radii.  According to P. Rudolph (Eder's Jahrb. f.  Photog.,
1891, 5, p. 225; 1893, 7, p. 221), cemented objectives of
thin lenses permit the elimination of spherical aberration
on the axis, if, as above, the collective lens has a smaller
refractive index; on the other hand, they permit the elimination
of astigmatism and curvature of the field, if the collective
lens has a greater refractive index (this follows from the
Petzval equation; see L. Seidel, Astr.  Nachr., 1856, p.
289).  Should the cemented system be positive, then the more
powerful lens must be positive; and, according to (4), to the
greater power belongs the weaker dispersive power (greater
v), that is to say, clown glass; consequently the crown
glass must have the greater refractive index for astigmatic
and plane images.  In all earlidr kinds of glass, however,
the dispersive power increased with the refractive index;
that is, v decreased as n increased; but some of the
Jena glasses by E. Abbe and O. Schott were crown glasses of
high refractive index, and achromatic systems from such crown
glasses, with flint glasses of lower refractive index, are
called the ``new achromats,'' and were employed by P. Rudolph
in the first ``anastigmats'' (photographic objectives).

Instead of making df vanish, a certain value can be assigned
to it which will produce, by the addition of the two lenses,
any desired chromatic deviation, e.g. sufficient to eliminate
one present in other parts of the system.  If the lenses I.
and II. be cemented and have the same refractive index for one
colour, then its effect for that one colour is that of a lens
of one piece; by such decomposition of a lens it can be made
chromatic or achromatic at will, without altering its spherical
effect.  If its chromatic effect (df/f) be greater than
that of the same lens, this being made of the more dispersive
of the two glasses employed, it is termed ``hyper-chromatic.''

For two thin lenses separated by a distance D the condition
for achromatism is D = v1f1+v2f2; if v1=v2
(e.g. if the lenses be made of the same glass), this reduces
to D= 1/2 (f1+f2), known as the ``condition for oculars.''

If a constant of reproduction, for instance the focal length,
be made equal for two colours, then it is not the same for
other colours, if two different glasses are employed.  For
example, the condition for achromatism (4) for two thin lenses
in contact is fulfilled in only one part of the spectrum, since
dn2/dn1 varies within the spectrum.  This fact was first
ascertained by J. Fraunhofer, who defined the colours by means
of the dark lines in the solar spectrum; and showed that the
ratio of the dispersion of two glasses varied about 20% from the
red to the violet (the variation for glass and water is about
50%).  If, therefore, for two colours, a and b, fa =
fb = f, then for a third colour, c, the focal length is
different, viz. if c lie between a and b, then fc<
f, and vice versa; these algebraic results follow from
the fact that towards the red the dispersion of the positive
crown glass preponderates, towards the violet that of the
negative flint.  These chromatic errors of systems, which
are achromatic for two colours, are called the ``secondary
spectrum,'' and depend upon the aperture and focal length
in the same manner as the primary chromatid errors do.

In fig. 11, taken from M. von Rohr,s Theoric und Geschichte des
photographischen Objectivs, the abscissae are focal lengths, and the
ordinates wave-lengths; of the latter the Fraunhofer lines used are--



 A'       C      D   Green Hg.   F    G'    Violet Hg.
 767.7  656.3  589.3  546.1    486.2 454.1  405.1 mm,


and the focal lengths are made equal for the lines C and F.
In the neighbourhood of 550 mm the tangent to the curve
is parallel to the axis of wave-lengths; and the focal
length varies least over a fairly large range of colour,
therefore in this neighbourhood the colour union is at its
best.  Moreover, this region of the spectrum is that which
appears brightest to the human eye, and consequently this
curve of the secondary on spectrum, obtained by making
fc = fF, is, according to the experiments of Sir G.
G. Stokes (Proc.  Roy. Soc., 1878), the most suitable for
visual instruments (``optical achromatism,').  In a similar
manner, for systems used in photography, the vertex of the
colour curve must be placed in the position of the maximum
sensibility of the plates; this is generally supposed to be at
G'; and to accomplish this the F and violet mercury lines are
united.  This artifice is specially adopted in objectives for
astronomical photography (``pure actinic achromatism'').  For
ordinary photography, however, there is this disadvantage:
the image on the focussing-screen and the correct adjustment
of the photographic sensitive plate are not in register; in
astronomical photography this difference is constant, but in
other kinds it depends on the distance of the objects.  On this
account the lines D and G' are united for ordinary photographic
objectives; the optical as well as the actinic image is
chromatically inferior, but both lie in the same place; and
consequently the best correction lies in F (this is known as
the ``actinic correction'' or ``freedom from chemical focus'').

Should there be in two lenses in contact the same focal lengths
for three colours a, b, and c, i.e. fa = fb =
fc = f, then the relative partial dispersion (nc-
nb) (na-nb) must be equal for the two kinds of glass
employed.  This follows by considering equation (4) for the
two pairs of colours ac and bc. Until recently no glasses
were known with a proportionap degree of absorption; but R.
Blair (Trans.  Edin.  Soc., 1791, 3, p. 3), P. Barlow, and
F. S. Archer overcame the difficulty by constructing fluid
lenses between glass walls.  Fraunhofer prepared glasses which
reduced the secondary spectrum; but permanent success was
only assured on the introduction of the Jena glasses by E.
Abbe and O. Schott.  In using glasses not having proportional
dispersion, the deviation of a third colour can be eliminated
by two lenses, if an interval be allowed between them; or
by three lenses in contact, which may not all consist of
the old glasses.  In uniting three colours an ``achromatism
of a higher order'' is derived; there is yet a residual
``tertiary spectrum,'' but it can always be neglected.

The Gaussian theory is only an approximation; monochromatic
or spherical aberrations still occur, which will be different
for different colours; and should they be compensated for one
colour, the image of another colour would prove disturbing.
The most important is the chromatic difference of aberration
of the axis point, which is still present to disturb the
image, after par-axial rays of different colours are united
by an appropriate combination of glasses.  If a collective
system be corrected for the axis point for a definite
wave-length, then, on account of the greater dispersion in
the negative components--the flint glasses,--over-correction
will arise for the shorter wavelengths (this being the
error of the negative components), and under-correction for
the longer wave-lengths (the error of crown glass lenses
preponderating in the red).  This error was treated by
Jean le Rond d'Alembert, and, in special detail, by C. F.
Gauss.  It increases rapidly with the aperture, and is more
important with medium apertures than the secondary spectrum
of par-axial rays; consequently, spherical aberration must
be elliminated for two colours, and if this be impossible,
then it must be eliminated for those particular wave-lengths
which are most effectual for the instrument in question (a
graphical representation of this error is given in M. von Rohr,
Theorie und Geschichte des photographischen Objectivs).

The condition for the reproduction of a surface element in the
place of a sharply reproduced point--the constant of the sine
relationship must also be fulfilled with large apertures for
several colours.  E. Abbe succeeded in computing microscope
objectives free from error of the axis point and satisfying
the sine condition for several colours, which therefore,
according to his definition, were ``aplanatic for several
colours''; such systems he termed ``apochromatic''.  While,
however, the magnification of the individual zones is the
same, it is not the same for red as for blue; and there is a
chromatic difference of magnification.  This is produced in the
same amount, but in the opposite sense, by the oculars, which
ate used with these objectives (``compensating oculars''), so
that it is eliminated in the image of the whole microscope.
The best telescope objectives, and photographic objectives
intended for three-colour work, are also apochromatic, even
if they do not possess quite the same quality of correction
as microscope objectives do.  The chromatic differences of
other errors of reproduction have seldom practical importances.

1 The investigations of E. Abbe on geometrical optics,
originally published only in his university lectures, were
first compiled by S. Czapski in 1893.  See below, AUTHORITIES.
AUTHORITIES.---The standard treatise in English is H. D.
Taylor, A System of Applied Optics (1906); reference may also
be made to R. S. Heath, A Treatise on Geometrical Optics (2nd
ed., 1895); and L A. Herman, A Treatise on Geometrical Optics
(1900).  The ideas of Abbe were first dealt with in S. Czapski,
Theorie der optischen Instrumente nach Abbe, published
separately at Breslau in 1893, and as vol. ii. of Winkelmann's
Handbuch der Physik in 1894; a second edition, by Czapski
and O. Eppenstein, was published at Leipzig in 1903 with the
title, Grundzuge der Theorie der optischen Instrumente nach
Abbe, and in vol. ii. of the 2nd ed. of Winkelmann's Handbuch
der Physik. The collection of the scientific staff of Carl
Zeiss at Jena, edited by M. von Rohr, Die bilderzeugung in
optischen Instrumenten vom Standpunkte der geometrischen
Optik (Berlin, 1904), contains articles by A. Konig and
M. von Rohr specially dealing with aberrations. (O. E.)

ABERSYCHAN, an urban district in the northern parliamentary
division of Monmouthshire, England, 11 m.  N. by W. of Newport,
on the Great Western, London and North-Western, and Rhymney
railways.  Pop. (1901) 17,768.  It lies in the narrow upper
valley of the Afon Lwyd on the eastern edge of the great coal
and iron mining district of Glamorganshire and Monmouthshire,
and its large industrial population is occupied in the mines
and ironworks.  The neighbourhood is wild and mountainous.

ABERTILLERY, an urban district in the western parliamentary
division of Monmouthshire, England, 16 m.  N.W. of Newport, on
the Great Western railway.  Pop. (1891) 10,846; (1901) 21,945.
It lies in the mountainous mining district of Monmouthshire
and Glamorganshire, in the valley of the Ebbw Fach, and the
large industrial population is mainly employed in the numerous
coalmines, ironworks and tinplate works.  Farther up the
valley are the mining townships of NANTYOLO and BLAINA,
forming an urban district with a population (1901) of 13,489.

ABERYSTWYTH, a municipal borough, market-town and seaport of
Cardiganshire, Wales, near the confluence of the rivers Ystwyth
and Rheidol, about the middle of Cardigan Bay. Pop. (1901)
8013.  It is the terminal station of the Cambrian railway,
and also of the Manchester and Milford line.  It is the
most popular watering-place on the west coast of Wales, and
possesses a pier, and a fine sea-front which stretches from
Constitution Hill at the north end of the Marine Terrace to the
mouth of the harbour.  The town is of modern appearance, and
contains many public buildings, of which the most remarkable
is the imposing but fantastic structure of the University
College of Wales near the Castle Hill.  Much of the finest
scenery in mid-Wales hes within easy reach of Aberystwyth.

The history of Aberystwyth may be said to date from the time
of Gilbert Strongbow, who in 1109 erected a fortress on the
present Castle Hill.  Edward I. rebuilt Strongbow's castle
in 1277, after its destruction by the Welsh.  Between the
years 1404 and 1408 Aberystwyth Castle was in the hands of
Owen Glendower, but finally surrendered to Prince Harry of
Monmouth, and shortly after this the town was incorporated
under the title of Ville de Lampadarn, the ancient name of the
place being Llanbadarn Gaerog, or the fortified Llanbadarn,
to distinguish it from Llanbadarn Fawr, the village one mile
inland.  It is thus styled in a charter granted by Henry
VIII., but by Elizabeth's time the town was invariably termed
Aberystwyth in all documents.  In 1647 the parliamentarian
troops razed the castle to the ground, so that its remains
are now inconsiderable, though portions of three towers still
exist.  Aberystwyth was a contributory parliamentary borough
until 1885, when its representation was merged in that of the
county.  In modern times Aberystwyth has become a Welsh
educational centre, owing to the erection here of one of the
three colleges of the university of Wales (1872), and of a
hostel for women in connexion with it.  In 1905 it was decided
to fix here the site of the proposed Welsh National Library.

ABETTOR (from ``to abet,'' O. Fr. abeter, a and beter, to
bait, urge dogs upon any one; this word is probably of Scandinavian
origin, meaning to cause to bite), a law term implying one
who instigates, encourages or assists another to commit an
offence.  An abettor differs from an accessory (q.v.) in that
he must be present at the commission of the crime; all abettors
(with certain exceptions) are principals, and, in the absence
of specific statutory provision to the contrary, are punishable
to the same extent as the actual perpetrator of the offence.
A person may in certain cases be convicted as an abettor in
the commission of an offence in which he or she could not be a
principal, e.g. a woman or boy under fourteen years of age
in aiding rape, or a solvent person in aiding and abetting
a bankrupt to commit offences against the bankruptcy laws.

ABEYANCE (O. Fr. abeance, ``gaping''), a state of
expectancy in respect of property, titles or office, when the
right to them is not vested in any one person, but awaits the
appearance or determination of the true owner.  In law, the
term abeyance can only be applied to such future estates as
have not yet vested or possibly may not vest.  For example, an
estate is granted to A for life, with remainder to the heir of
B, the latter being alive; the remainder is then said to be in
abeyance, for until the death of B it is uncertain who his heir
is.  Similarly the freehold of a benefice, on the death of the
incumbent, is said to be in abeyance until the next incumbent
takes possession.  The most common use of the term is in
the case of peerage dignities.  If a peerage which passes to
heirs-general, like the ancient baronies by writ, is held
by a man whose heir-at-law is neither a male, nor a woman
who is an only child, it goes into abeyance on his death
between two or more sisters or their heirs, and is held by
no one till the abeyance is terminated; if eventually only
one person represents the claims of all the sisters, he or
she can claim the termination of the abeyance as a matter of
right.  The crown can also call the peerage out of abeyance at
any moment, on petition, in favour of any one of the sisters
or their heirs between whom it is in abeyance.  The question
whether ancient earldoms created in favour of a man and his
``heirs'' go into abeyance like baronies by writ has been
raised by the claim to the earldom of Norfolk created in 1312,
discussed before the Committee for Privileges in 1906.  It is
common, but incorrect, to speak of peerage dignities which are
dormant (i.e. unclaimed) as being in abeyance. (J. H. R.)

ABGAR, a name or title borne by a line of kings or
toparchs, apparently twenty-nine in number, who reigned in
Osrhoene and had their capital at Edessa about the time of
the Christian era.  According to an old tradition, one of
these princes, perhaps Abgar V. (Ukkama or Uchomo, ``the
black''), being afflicted with leprosy, sent a letter to
Jesus, acknowledging his divinity, craving his help and
offering him an asylum in his own residence, but Jesus wrote
a letter declining to go, promising, however, that after his
ascension he would send one of his disciples.  These letters
are given by Eusebius (Eccl.  Hist. i. 13), who declares
that the Syriac document from which he translates them had
been preserved in the archives at Edessa from the time of
Abgar.  Eusebius also states that in due course Judas, son of
Thaddaeus, was sent (in 340 = A.D. 29). In another form of
the story, derived from Moses of Chorene, it is said further
that Jesus sent his portrait to Abgar, and that this existed
in Edessa (Hist. Armen., ed.  W. Whiston, ii. 29-32).
Yet another version is found in the Syriac Doctrina Addaei
(Addaeus=Thaddaeus), edited by G. Phillips (1876).  Here it
is said that the reply of Jesus was given not in writing, but
verbally, and that the event took place in 343 (A.D. 32).
Greek forms of the legend are found in the Acta Thaddaei
(C. Tischendorf, Acta apostoloruiu apocr. 261 ff.).

These stories have given rise to much discussion.  The testi-
mony of Augustine and Jerome is to the effect that Jesus wrote
nothing.  The correspondence was rejected as apocryphal by
Pope Gelasius and a Roman Synod (c. 495), though, it is
true, this view has not been shared universally by the Roman
church (Tillemont, Memoires, i. 3, pp. 990 ff ). Amongst
Evangelicals the spuriousness of the letters is almost generally
admitted.  Lipsius (Die Edessenische Abgarsage, 1880) has
pointed out anachronisms which seem to indicate that the story
is quite unhistorical.  The first king of Edessa of whom we have
any trustworthy information is Abgar VIII., bar Ma'nu (A.D.
176-213).  It is suggested that the legend arose from a desire
to trace the christianizing of his kingdom to an apostolic
source.  Eusebius gives the legend in its oldest form; it was
worked up in the Doctrina Addaei in the second half of the 4th
century; and Moses of Chorene was dependent upon both these sources.

BIBLIOGRAPHY---R, Schmidt in Herzoe-Hauck, Realencyklopadie;
Die Edessenische Abgarsage kritisch untersucht (1880);
Matthes, Die Edessenische Abgarsage auf ihre Fortbildung
untersucht (1882); Les Origines de l'eglise d'Edesse
et la legende d'A. (1888); A. Harnack, Geschichte d.
altchristlichen Litteratur, i. 2 (1893); L. Duchesne,
Bulletin critique, 1889, pp. 41-48; for the Epistles see
APOCRYPHAL LITERATURE, sect. ``New Testament'' (c.)

ABHIDHAMMA, the name of one of the three Pitakas, or
baskets of tradition, into which the Buddhist scriptures
(see BUDDHISM) are divided.  It consists of seven works: 1.
Dhamma Sangani (enumeration of qualities). 2. Vibhanga
(exposition). 3. Katha Vatthu (bases of opinion). 4.
Puggala Pannatti (on individuals). 5. Dhatu Katha (on
relations of moral dispositions). 6. Yamaka (the pairs, that
is, of ethical states). 7. Patthana (evolution of ethical
states).  These have now been published by the Pah Text
Society.  The first has been translated into English, and an
abstract of the third has been published.  The approximate
date of these works is probably from about 400 B.C. to
about 250 B.C., the first being the oldest and the third
the latest of the seven.  Before the publication of the texts,
when they were known only by hearsay, the term Abhidhamma
was usually rendered ``Metaphysics.'' This is now seen to be
quite erroneous. Dhamma means the doctrine, and Abhidhamma
has a relation to Dhamma similar to that of by-law to
law.  It expands, classifies, tabulates, draws corollaries
from the ethical doctrines laid down in the more popular
treatises.  There is no metaphysics in it atnall, only
psychological ethics of a peculiarly dry and scholastic kind.
And there is no originality in it; only endless permutations
and combinations of doctrines already known and accepted.
As in the course of centuries the doctrine itself, in certain
schools, varied, it was felt necessary to rewrite these secondary
works.  This was first done, so far as is at present known,
by the Sarvastivadins (Realists), who in the century before
and after Christ produced a fresh set of seven Abhidhamma
books.  These are lost in India, but still exist in Chinese
translations.  The translations have been analysed in a
masterly way by Professor Takakusu in the article mentioned
below, They deal only with psychological ethics.  In the
course of further centuries these hooks in turn were superseded
by new treatises; and in one school at least, that of the
Maha-yana (great Vehicle) there was eventually developed a
system of metaphysics.  But the word Abhidhamma then fell
out of use in that school, though it is still used in the
schools that continue to follow the original seven books.

See Buddhist Psychology by Caroline Rhys Davids (London, 1900),
translation of the Dhamma Sangani, with valuable introduction;
or the Royal Asiatic Society, 1892, contains an abstract of the
Katha ``On the Abhidhamma books of the Sarvastivadins,'' by
Prof.  Takakusu, in Journal of the Pali Text Society, 1905.

(l'. W. R. D.)

ABHORRERS, the name given in 1679 to the persons who
expressed their abhorrence at the action of those who
had signed petitions urging King Charles II. to assemble
parliament.  Feel ing against Roman Catholics, and especially
against James, duke of York, was running strongly; the
Exclusion Bill had been passed by the House of Commons,
and the popularity of James, duke of Monmouth, was very
great.  To prevent this bill from passing into law, Charles
had dissolved parliament in July 1679, and in the following
October had prorogued its successor without allowing it to
meet.  He was then deluged with petitions urging him to
call it together, and this agitation was opposed by Sir
George Jeffreys (q.v.) and Francis Wythens, who presented
addresses expressing ``abhorrence'' of the ``Petitioners,''
and thus initiated the movement of the abhorrers, who
supported the action of the king. ``The frolic went all
over England,'' says Roger North; and the addresses of
the Abhorrers which reached the king from all parts of the
country formed a counterblast to those of the Petitioners.
It is said that the terms Whig and Tory were first applied
to English political parties in consequence of this dispute.

ABIATHAR (Heb. Ebyathar, ``the [divine] father is
pre-eminent''), in the Bible, son of Ahimelech or Ahijah,
priest at Nob. The only one of the priests to escape from
Saul's massacre, he fled to David at Keilah, taking with him
the ephod (1 Sam. xxii. 20 f., xxiii. 6, 9). He was of great
service to David, especially at the time of the rebellion
of Absalom (2 Sam. xv. 24, 29, 35, xx. 25). In 1 Kings iv.
4 Zadok and Abiathar are found acting together as priests
under Solomon.  In 1 Kings i. 7, 19, 25, however, Abiathar
appears as a supporter of Adonijah, and in ii. 22 and 26
it is said that he was deposed by Solomon and banished to
Anathoth.  In 2 Sam. viii. 17 ``Abiathar, the son of Ahimelech''
should be read, with the Syriac, for ``Ahimelech, the son
of Abiathar.'' For a similar confusion see Mark ii. 26.

ABICH, OTTO WILHELM HERMANN VON (1806-1886), German
mineralogist and geologist, was born at Berlin on the 11th
of December 1806, and educated at the university in that
city.  His earliest scientific work related to spinels and other
minerals, and later he made special studies of fumaroles, of the
mineral deposits around volcanic vents and of the structure of
volcanoes.  In 1842 he was appointed professor of mineralogy
in the university of Dorpat, and henceforth gave attention
to the geology and mineralogy of Russia.  Residing for some
time at Tiflis he investigated the geology of the Caucasus.
Ultimately' he retired to Vienna, where he died on the 1st
of July 1886.  The mineral Abichite was named after him.

PUBLICATIONS.---Vues illustratives de quelques phenomenes
geologiques, prises sur le Vesuve et l'Etna, pendant
les annees 1833 et 1834 (Berlin, 1836); Ueber die
Natur und den Zusammenhang der vulcanischen Bildungen
(Brunswick, 1841); Geologische Forschungen in den
Kaukasischen Landern (3 vols., Vienna, 1878, 1882, and 1887).

ABIGAIL (Heb. Abigayil, perhaps ``father is joy''), or
ABIGAL (2 Sam. iii. 3), in the Bible, the wife of Nabal the
Carmelite, on whose death she became the wife of David (1 Sam.
xxv.).  By her David had a son, whose name appears in the
Hebrew of 2 Sam. iii. 3 as Chileab, in the Septuagint as
Daluyah, and in 1 Chron. iii. 1 as Daniel.  The name
Abigail was also borne by a sister of David (2 Sam. xvii.
25; 1 Chron. ii. 16 f.).  From the former (self-styled
``handmaid'' 1 Sam. xxv. 25 f.) is derived the colloquial use
of the term for a waiting-woman (cf. Abigail, the ``waiting
gentlewoman,'' in Beaumont and Fletcher's Scornful Lady.)

ABIJAH (Heb. Abiyyah and Abiyyahu, ``Yah is father''),
a name borne by nine different persons mentioned in the Old
Testament, of whom the most noteworthy are the following. (i)
The son and successor of Rehoboam, king of Judah (2 Chron.
xii. 16--xiii.), reigned about two years (918-915 B.C..)
The accounts of him in the books of Kings and Chronicles are
very conflicting (compare 1 Kings xv. 2 and 2 Chron. xi.20
with 2 Chron. xiii.2).  The Chronicler tells us that he has
drawn his facts from the Midrash (commentary) of the prophet
Iddo This is perhaps sufficient to explain the character of
the narrative. (2) The second son of Samuel (1 Sam. viii.
2; 1 Chron. vi. 28 [13j).  He and his brother Joel judged at
Beersheba.  Their misconduct was made by the elders of
Israel a pretext for demanding a king (1 Sam. viii. 4).
(3) A son of Jeroboam I., king of Israel; he died young
(1 Kings xiv. 1 ff., 17). (4) Head of the eighth order of
priests (1 Chron. xxiv. 10), the order to which Zacharias,
the father of John the Baptist, belonged (Luke i. 5).

The alternative form Abijam is probably a
mistake, though it is upheld by M. Jastrow.

ABILA, (1) a city of ancient Syria, the capital of the
tetrarchy of Abilene, a territory whose extent it is impossible
to define.  It is generally called Abila of Lysanias, to
distinguish it from (2) below.  Abila was an important town on
the imperial highway from Damascus to Heliopolis (Baalbek).
The site is indicated by ruins of a temple, aqueducts, &c.,
and inscriptions on the banks of the river Barada at Suk
Wadi Barada, a village called by early Arab geographers
Abil-es-Suk, between Baalbek and Damascus.  Though the names
Abel and Abila differ in derivation and in meaning, their
similarity has given rise to the tradition that this was the
place of Abel's burial.  According to Josephus, Abilene was a
separate Iturean kingdom till A.D. 37, when it was granted
by C to Agrippa I.; in 52 Claudius granted it to Agrippa II.
(See also LYSANIAS.) (2) A city in Perea, now Abil-ez-Zeit.

ABILDGAARD, NIKOLAJ ABRAHAM (1744-1809), called ``the
Father of Danish Painting,'' was born at Copenhagen, the
son of Soren Abildgaard, an antiquarian draughtsman of
repute.  He formed his style on that of Claude and of Nicolas
Poussin, and was a cold theorist, inspired not by nature but by
art.  As a technical painter he attained remarkable success,
his tone being very harmonious and even, but the effect, to a
foreigner's eye, is rarely interesting.  His works are scarcely
known out of Copenhagen, where he won an immense fame in his
own generation.  He was the founder of the Danish school of
painting, and the master of Thorwaldsen and Eckersherg.

ABIMELECH (Hebrew for ``father of [or is] the king'').
(1) A king of Gerar in South Palestine with whom Isaac, in
the Bible, had relations.  The patriarch, during his sojourn
there, alleged that his wife Rebekah was his sister, but the
king doubting this remonstrated with him and pointed out how
easily adultery might have been unintentionally committed (Gen.
xxvi.).  Abimelech is called ``king of the Philistines,'' but
the title is clearly an anachronism.  A very similar story
is told of Abraham and Sarah (ch. xx.), but here Abimelech
takes Sarah to wife, although he is warned by a divine vision
before the crime is actually committed.  The incident is
fuller and shows a great advance in bdeas of morality.  Of
a more primitive character, however, is another parallel
story of Abraham at the court of Pharaoh, king of Egypt (xii.
10-20), where Sarah his wife is taken into the royal household,
and the plagues sent by Yahweh lead to the discovery of the
truth.  Further incidents in Isaac's life at Gerar are narrated
in Gen. xxvi. (cp. xxi. 22-34, time of Abraham), notably a
covenant with Abimelech at Beer-sheba (whence the name is
explained ``well of the oath''); (see ABRAHAM.) By a pure
error, or perhaps through a confusion in the traditions, Achish
the Philistine (of Gath, 1 Sam. xxi., xxvii.), to whom David
fled, is called Abimelech in the superscription to Psalm xxxiv.

(2) A son of Jerubbaal or Gideon (q.v.), by his Shechemite
concubine (Judges viii. 31, ix.).  On the death of Gideon,
Abimelech set himself to assert the authority which his
father had earned, and through the influence of his mother's
clan won over the citizens of Shechem.  Furnished with money
from the treasury of the temple of Baal-berith, he hired a
band of followers and slew seventy (cp. 2 Kings x. 7) of his
brethren at Ophrah, his father's home.  This is one of the
earliest recorded instances of a practice common enough on
the accession of Oriental despots.  Abimelech thus became
king, and extended his authority Over central Palestine.
But his success was short-lived, and the subsequent discord
between Abimelech and the Shechemites was regarded as a just
reward for his atrocious massacre.  Jotham, the only one who
is said to have escaped, boldly appeared on Mount Gerizim
and denounced the ingratitude of the townsmen towards the
legitimate sons of the man who had saved them from Midian.
``Jotham's fable'' of the trees who desired a king may be
foreign to the context; it is a piece of popular lore, and
cannot be pressed too far: the nobler trees have no wish to
rule over others, only the bramble is self-confident.  The
``fable'' appears to be antagonistic to ideas of monarchy.
The origin of the conflicts which subsequently arose is not
clear.  Gaal, a new-comer, took the opportunity at the time
of the vintage, when there was a festival in tho temple, to
head a revolt and seized Shechem.  Abimelech, warned by his
deputy Zebul, left his residence at Arumah and approached the
city.  In a fine bit of realism we are told how Gaal observed
the approaching foe and was told by Zebul, ``You see the
shadow of the hills as men,'' and as they drew nearer Zebul's
ironical remark became a taunt, ``Where is now thy mouth?
is not this the people thou didst despise? go now and fight
them!'' This revolt, which Abimelech successfully quelled,
appears to be only an isolated episode.  Another account
tells of marauding bands of Shechemites which disturbed the
district.  The king disposed his men (the whole chapter is
specially interesting for the full details it gives of the
nature of ancient military operations), and after totally
destroying Shechem, proceeded against Thebez, which had also
revolted.  Here, while storming the citadel, he was struck on
the head by a fragment of a millstone thrown from the wall by a
woman.  To avoid the disgrace of perishing by a woman's hand,
he begged his armour-bearer to run him through the body, but
his memory was not saved from the ignominy he dreaded (2 Sam.
xi. 21). It is usual to regard Abimelech's reign as the first
attempt to establish a monarchy in Israel, but the story is
mainly that of the rivalries of a half-developed petty state,
and of the ingratitude of a community towards the descendants
of its deliverer. (See, further, JEWS, JUDGES.) (S. A. C.)

ABINGDON, a market town and municipal borough in the
Abingdon parliamentary division of Berkshire, England, 6
m.  S. of Oxford, the terminus of a branch of the Great
Western railway from Radley.  Pop. (1901) 6480.  It lies
in the fiat valley of the Thames, on the west (right) bank,
where the small river Ock flows in from the Vale of White
Horse.  The church of St Helen stands near the river, and
its fine Early English tower with Perpendicular spire is the
principal object in the pleasant views of the town from the
river.  The body of the church, which has five aisles, is
principally Perpendicular.  The smaller church of St Nicholas
is Perpendicular in appearance, though parts of the fabric are
older.  Of a Benedictine abbey there remain a beautiful
Perpendicular gateway, and ruins of buildings called the prior's
house, mainly Early English, and the guest house, with other
fragments.  The picturesque narrow-arched bridge over the Thames
near St Helen's church dates originally from 1416.  There may
be mentioned further the old buildings of the grammar school,
founded in 1563, and of the charity called Christ's Hospital
(1583); while the town-hall in the marketplace, dating from
1677, is attributed to Inigo Jones.  The grammar school now
occupies modern buildings, and ranks among the lesser public
schools of England, having scholarships at Pembroke College,
Oxford.  St Peter's College, Radley, 2 m. from Abingdon, is
one of the principal modern public schools.  It was opened in
1847.  The buildings he close to the Thames, and the school is
famous for rowing, sending an eight to the regatta at Henley each
year.  Abingdon has manufactures of clothing and carpets and
a large agricultural trade.  The borough is under a mayor,
four aldermen and twelve councillors.  Area, 730 acres.

Abingdon (Abbedun, Abendun) was famous for its abbey, which
was of great wealth and importance, and is believed to have
been founded in A.D. 675 by Cissa, one of the subreguli of
Centwin.  Abundant charters from early Saxon monarchs are
extant confirming laws and privileges to the abbey, and the
earliest of these, from King Ceadwalla, was granted before
A.D. 688. in the reign of Alfred the abbey was destroyed
by the Danes, but it was restored by Edred, and an imposing
list of possessions in the Domesday survey evidences recovered
prosperity.  William the Conqueror in 1084 celebrated Easter at
Abingdon, and left his son, afterwards Henry I., to be educated
at the abbey.  After the dissolution in 1538 the town sank
into decay, and in 1555, on a representation of its pitiable
condition, Queen Mary granted a charter establishing a mayor,
two bailiffs, twelve chief burgesses, and sixteen secondary
burgesses, the mayor to be clerk of the market, coroner and
a Justice of the peace.  The council was empowered to elect
one burgess to parliament, and this right continued until the
Redistribution of Seats Act of 1885.  A town clerk and other
officers were also appointed, and the town boundaries described
in great detail.  Later charters from Elizabeth, James I.,
James II., George Il. and George III. made no considerable
change.  James II. changed the style of the corporation to
that of a mayor, twelve aldermen and twelve burgesses.  The
abbot seems to have held a market from very early times, and
charters for the holding of markets and fairs mere granted by
various sovereigns from Edward I. to George II. In the 13th
and 14th centuries Abingdon was a flourishing agricultural
centre with an extensive trade in wool, and a famous weaving
and clothing manufacture.  The latter industry declined
before the reign of Queen Mary, but has since been revived.

The present Christ's Hospital originally belonged to
the Gild of the Holy Cross, on the dissolution of which
Edward VI. founded the hospital under its present name.

See Victoria County History, Berkshire; Joseph
Stevenson, Chronicon Monasterii de Abingdon, A.D.
201--1189 (Rolls Series, 2 vols., London, 1858).

ABINGER, JAMES SCARLETT, 1ST BARON (1769-1844), English
judge, was born on the 13th of December 1760 in Jamaica, where
his father, Robert Scarlett, had property.  In the summer of
1785 he was sent to England to complete his education, and
went to Trinity College, Cambridge, taking his B.A. degree in
1789.  Having entered the Inner Temple he was called to the
bar in 1791, and joined the northern circuit and the Lancashire
sessions.  Though he had no professional connexions, by steady
application he gradually obtained a large practice, ultimately
confining himself to the Court of King's Bench and the northern
circuit.  He took silk in 1816, and from this time till the
close of 1834 he was the most successful lawyer at the bar;
he was particularly effective before a jury, and his income
reached the high-water mark of L. 18,500, a large sum for that
period.  He began life as a Whig, and first entered parliament in
1819 as member for Peterborough, representing that constituency
with a short break (1822-1823) till 1830, when he was elected
for the borough of Malton.  He became attorney-general, and was
knighted when Canning formed his ministry in 1827; and though
he resigned when the duke of Wellington came into power in
1828, he resumed office in 1829 and went out with the duke of
Wellington in 1830.  His opposition to the Reform Bill caused
his severance from the Whig leaders, and having joined the
Tories he was elected, first for Colchester and then in 1832
for Norwich, for which borough he sat until the dissolution of
parliament.  He was appointed lord chief baron of the exchequer
in 1834, and presided in that court for more than nine
years.  While attending the Norfolk circuit on the 2nd of
April he was suddenly seized with apoplexy, and died in his
lodgings at Bury on the 7th of April 1844.  He had been raised
to the peerage as Baron Abinger in 1835, taking his title from
the Surrey estate he had bought in 1813.  The qualities which
brought him success at the bar were not equally in place on
the bench; he was partial, dictatorial and vain; and complaint
was made of his domineering attitude towards juries.  But his
acuteness of mind and clearness of expression remained to the
end.  Lord Abinger was twice married (the second time only
six months before his death), and by his first wife (d. 1829)
had three sons and two daughters, the title passing to his
eldest son Robert (1794-1861).  His second son, General Sir
James Yorke Scarlett (1799-1871), leader of the heavy cavalry
charge at Balaclava, is dealt with in a separate article; and
his elder daughter, Mary, married John, Baron Campbell, and
was herself created Baroness Stratheden (Lady Stratheden and
Campbell) (d. 1860).  Sir Philip Anglin Scarlett (d. 1831),
Lord Abinger's younger brother, was chief justice of Jamaica.

See P. C. Scarlett, Memoir of Jaimes, 1st Lord Abinger (1877);
Foss's Lives of the Judges; E. Manson, Builders of our Law (1904).

ABINGTON, FRANCES (1737-1815), English actress, was the
daughter of a private soldier named Barton, and was, at
first, a flower girl and a street singer.  She then became
servant to a French milliner, obtaining a taste in dress
and a knowledge of French which afterwards stood her in good
stead.  Her first appearance on the stage was at the Haymarket
in 1755 as Miranda in Mrs Centlivre's Busybody. In 1756, on
the recommendation of Samuel Foote, she became a member of the
Drury Lane company, where she was overshadowed by Mrs Pritchard
and Kitty Clive.  In 1759, after an unhappy marriage with her
music-master, one of the royal trumpeters, she is mentioned in
the bills as Mrs Abington.  Her first success was in Ireland
as Lady Townley, and it was only after five years, on the
pressing invitation of Garrick, that she returned to Drury
Lane.  There she remained for eighteen years, being the
original of more than thirty important characters, notably
Lady Teazle (1777).  Her Beatrice, Portia, Desdemona and
Ophelia were no less liked than her Miss Hoyden, Biddy Tipkin,
Lucy Lockit and Miss Prue.  It was in the last character in
Love for Love that Reynolds painted his best portrait of
her.  In 1782 she left Drury Lane for Covent Garden.  After an
absence from the stage from 1790 until 1797, she reappeared,
quitting it finally in 1799.  Her ambition, personal wit
and cleverness won her a distinguished position in society,
in spite of her humble origin.  Women of fashion copied her
frocks, and a head-dress she wore was widely adopted and known
as the ``Abington cap.'' She died on the 4th of March 1815.

ABIOGENESIS, in biology, the term, equivalent to the older
terms ``spontaneous generation,'' Generatio acquivoca,
Generatio primaria, and of more recent terms such as
archegenesis and archebiosis, for the theory according to which
fully formed living organisms sometimes arise from not-living
matter.  Aristotle explicitly taught abiogenesis, and laid it
down as an observed fact that some animals spring from putrid
matter, that plant lice arise from the dew which falls on
plants, that fleas are developed from putrid matter, and so
forth.  T. J. Parker (Elementary Biology) cites a passage from
Alexander Ross, who, commenting on Sir Thomas Browne's doubt
as to ``whether mice may be bred by putrefaction,'' gives a
clear statement of the common opinion on abiogenesis held until
about two centuries ago.  Ross wrote: ``So may he (Sir Thomas
Browne) doubt whether in cheese and timber worms are generated;
or if beetles and wasps in cows' dung; or if butterflies,
locusts, grasshoppers, shell-fish, snails, eels, and such like,
be procreated of putrefied matter, which is apt to receive
the form of that creature to which it is by formative power
disposed.  To question this is to question reason, sense and
experience.  If he doubts of this let him go to Egypt, and
there he will find the fields swarming with mice, begot of
the mud of Nylus, to the great calamity of the inhabitants.''

The first step in the scientific refutation of the theory
of abiogenesis was taken by the Italian Redi, who, in 1668,
proved that no maggots were ``bred'' in meat on which flies
were prevented by wire screens from laying their eggs.
From the 17th century onwards it was gradually shown that,
at least in the case of all the higher and readily visible
organisms, abiogenesis did not occur, but that omne vivum e
vivo, every living thing came from a pre-existing living thing.

The discovery of the microscope carried the refutation
further.  In 1683 A. van Leeuwenhoek discovered bacteria,
and it was soon found that however carefully organic matter
might be protected by screens, or by being placed in stoppered
receptacles, putrefaction set in, and was invariably accompanied
by the appearance of myriads of bacteria and other low
organisms.  As knowledge of microscopic forms of life increased,
so the apparent possibilities of abiogenesis increased, and
it became a tempting hypothesis that whilst the higher forms
of life arose only by generation from their kind, there was
a perpetual abiogenetic fount by which the first steps in the
evolution of living organisms continued to arise, under suitable
conditions, from inorganic matter.  It was due chiefly to L.
Pasteur that the occurrence of abiogenesis in the microscopic
world was disproved as much as its occurrence in the macroscopic
world.  If organic matter were first sterilized and then
prevented from contamination from without, putrefaction did
not occur, and the matter remained free from microbes.  The
nature of sterilization, and the difficulties in securing
it, as well as the extreme delicacy of the manipulations
necessary, made it possible for a very long time to be doubtful
as to the application of the phrase omne vivum e vivo to
the microscopic world, and there still remain a few belated
supporters of abiogenesis.  Subjection to the temperature of
boiling water for, say, half an hour seemed an efficient mode
of sterilization, until it was discovered that the spores of
bacteria are so involved in heat-resisting membranes, that only
prolonged exposure to dry, baking heat can be recognized as an
efficient process of sterilization.  Moreover, the presence of
bacteria, or their spores, is so universal that only extreme
precautions guard against a re-infection of the sterilized
material.  It may now be stated definitely that all known
living organisms arise only from pre-existing living organisms.

So far the theory of abiogenesis may be taken as disproved.
It must be noted, however, that this disproof relates only
to known existing organisms.  All these are composed of a
definite substance, known as protoplasm (q.v.), and the
modern refutation of abiogenesis applies only to the organic
forms in which protoplasm now exists.  It may be that in the
progress of science it may yet become possible to construct
living protoplasm from non-living material.  The refutation
of abiogenesis has no further bearing on this possibility than
to make it probable that if protoplasm ultimately be formed in
the laboratory, it will be by a series of stages, the earlier
steps being the formation of some substance, or substances,
now unknown, which are not protoplasm.  Such intermediate
stages may have existed in the past, and the modern refutation
of abiogenesis has no application to the possibility of
these having been formed from inorganic matter at some past
time.  Perhaps the words archebiosis, or archegenesis,
should be reserved for the theory that protoplasm in the
remote past has been developed from not-living matter by a
series of steps, and many of those, notably T. H. Huxley, who
took a large share in the process of refuting contemporary
abiogenesis, have stated their belief in a primordial
archebiosis. (See BIOGENESIS and LIFE.) (P. C. M.)

ABIPONES, a tribe of South American Indians of Guaycuran
stock recently inhabiting the territory lying between Santa
Fe and St Iago.  They originally occupied the Chaco district
of Paraguay, but were driven thence by the hostility of the
Spaniards.  According to Martin Dobrizhoffer, a Jesuit missionary,
who, towards the end of the 18th century, lived among them
for a period of seven years, they then numbered not more than
5000.  They were a well-formed, handsome people, with black
eyes and aquiline noses, thick black hair, but no beards.
The hair from the forehead to the crown of the head was pulled
out, this constituting a tribal mark.  The faces, breasts and
arms of the women were covered with black figures of various
designs made with thorns, the tattooing paint being a mixture
of ashes and blood.  The lips and ears of both sexes were
pierced.  The men were brave fighters, their chief weapons
being the bow and spear.  No child was without bow and arrows;
the bow-strings were made of foxes' entrails.  In battle
the Abipones wore an armour of tapir's hide over which a
jaguar's skin was sewn.  They were excellent swimmers and good
horsemen.  For five months in the year when the floods were
out they lived on islands or even in shelters built in the
trees.  They seldom married before the age of thirty, and were
singularly chaste. ``With the Abipones,'' says Darwin, ``when
a man chooses a wife, he bargains with the parents about the
price.  But it frequently happens that the girl rescinds
what has been agreed upon between the parents and bridegroom,
obstinately rejecting the very mention of marriage.  She often
runs away and hides herself, and thus eludes the bridegroom.''
Infanticide was systematic, never more than two children being
reared in one family, a custom doubtless originating in the
difficulty of subsistence.  The young were suckled for two
years.  The Abipones are now believed to be extinct as a tribe.

Martin Dobrizhoffer's Latin Historia de Abiponibus
(Vienna, 1784) was translated into English by Sara
Coleridge, at the suggestion of Southey, in 1822, under
the title of An Account of the Abipones (3 vols.).

ABITIBBI, a lake and river of Ontario, Canada.  The lake,
in 49 deg.  N., 80 deg.  W., is 60 m. long and studded with islands.
It is shallow, and the shores in its vicinity are covered
with small timber.  It was formerly employed by the Hudson's
Bay Company as part of a canoe route to the fur lands of the
north.  The construction of the Grand Trunk Pacific railway
through this district has made it of some importance.  Its
outlet is Abitibbi river, a rapid stream, which after a course
of 200 m. joins the Moose river, flowing into James Bay.

ABJURATION (from Lat. abjurare, to forswear), a solemn
repudiation or renunciation on oath.  At common law, it
signified the oath of a person who had taken sanctuary to
leave the realm for ever; this was abolished in the reign of
James I. The Oath at Abjuration, in English history, was
a solemn disclaimer, taken by members of parliament, clergy
and laymen against the right of the Stuarts to the crown,
imposed by laws of William III., George I. and George III.;
but its place has since been taken by the oath of allegiance.

ABKHASIA, or ABHASIA, a tract of Russian Caucasia,
government of Kutais.  The Caucasus mountains on the N. and
N.E. divides it from Circassia; on the S.E. it is bounded
by Mingrelia; and on the S.W. by the Black Sea. Though the
country is generally mountainous, with dense forests of oak and
walnut, there are some deep, well-watered valleys, and the
climate is mild.  The soil is fertile, producing wheat, maize,
grapes, figs, pomegranates and wine.  Cattle and horses are
bred.  Honey is produced; and excellent arms are made.  This
country was subdued (c. 550) by the Emperor Justinian, who
introduced Christianity.  Native dynasties ruled from 735 to
the 15th century, when the region was conquered by the Turks
and became Mahommedan.  The Russians acquired possession
of it piecemeal between 1829 and 1842, but their power was
not firmly established until after 1864.  Area, 2800 sq.
m.  The principal town is Sukhum-kaleh.  Pop. 43,000, of whom
two-thirds are Mingrelians and one-third Abkhasians, a Cherkess
or Circassian race.  The total number of Abkhasians in the
two governments of Kutais and Kuban was 72,103 in 1897; large
numbers emigrated to the Turkish empire in 1864 and 1878.

ABLATION (from Lat. ablatus, carried away), the process of
removing anything; a term used technically in geology of the wearing
away of a rock or glacier, and in surgery for operative removal.

ABLATITIOUS (from Lat. ablatus, taken away). reducina
or withdrawing; in astronomy a force which interferes
between the moon and the earth to lessen the strength
of gravitation is called ``ablatitious,'' just as it is
called ``addititious'' when it increases that strength.

ABLATIVE (Lat. ablativus, sc. casus, from ablatum, taken
away), in grammar, a case of the noun, the fundamental sense
of which is direction from; in Latin, the principal language in
which the case exists, this has been extended, with or without
a preposition, to the instrument or agent of an act, and the
place or time at, and manner in, which a thing is done.  The
case is also found in Sanskrit, Zend, Oscan and Umbrian, and
traces remain in other languages.  The ``Ablative Absolute,''
a grammatical construction in Latin, consists of a noun in
the ablative case, with a participle, attribute or qualifying
word agreeing with it, not depending on any other part of the
sentence, to express the time, occasion or circumstance of a fact.

ABLUTION (Lat. ablutio, from ablucre, ``to wash off''),
a washing, in its religious use, destined to secure that
ceremonial or ritualistic purity which must not be confused
with the physical or hygienic cleanliness of persons and
things obtained by the use of soap and water.1 Indeed the
two states may contradict each other, as in the case of the
4th-century Christian pilgrim to Jerusalem who boasted that
she had not washed ner face for eighteen years for fear of
removing therefrom the holy chrism of baptism.  The purport,
then, of ablutions is to remove, not dust and dirt, but the---to
us imaginary--stains contracted by contact with the dead,
with childbirth, with menstruous women, with murder whether
wilful or involuntary, with almost any form of bloodshed, with
persons of inferior caste, with dead animal refuse, e.g.
leather or excrement, with leprosy, madness and any form of
disease.  Among all races in a certain grade of development
such associations are vaguely felt to be dangerous and to impair
vitality.  In a later stage the taint is regarded as alive,
as a demon or evil spirit alighting on and passing into the
things and persons exposed to contamination.  In general,
water, cows' urine and blood of swine are the materials used in
ablutions.  Of these water is the commonest, and its efficacy
is enhanced if it be running, and still more if a magical or
sacramental virtue has been imparted to it by ritual blessing or
consecration.  Some concrete examples will best illustrate the
nature of such ablutions.  In the Atharva-Veda, vii. 116,
we have this allopathic remedy for fever.  The patient's skin
burns, that of a frog is cold to the touch; therefore tie to
the foot of the bed a frog, bound with red and black thread,
and wash down the sick man so that the water of ablution falls

1 in its technical ecclesiastical sense the ablution is
the ritual washing of the chalice and of the priest's fingers
after the celebration of Holy Communion in the Catholic
Church.  The wine and water used for this purpose are themselves
sometimes called ``the ablution.'' on the frog.  Let the
medicine man or magician pray that the fever may pass into
the frog, and the frog be forthwith re-leased, and the cure
will be effected.  In the old Athenian Anthesteria the blood
of victims was poured over the unclean.  A bath of bulls'
blood was much in vogue as a baptism in the mysteries of
Attis.  The water must in ritual washings run off in order
to carry away the miasma or unseen demon of disease; and
accordingly in baptism the early Christians used living or
running water.  Nor was it enough that the person baptized
should himself enter the water; the baptizer must pour it
over his head, so that it run down his person.  Similarly
the Brahman takes care, after ablution of a person, to wipe
the cathartic water off from head to feet downwards, that the
malign influence may pass out through the feet.  The same care
is shown in ritual ablutions in the Bukovina and elsewhere.

Water and fire, spices and sulphur, are used in ritual
cleansings, says Iamblichus in his book on mysteries (v. 23),
as being specially full of the divine nature.  Nevertheless in
all religions, and especially in the Brahmanic and Christian,
the cathartic virtue of water is enhanced by the introduction
into it by means of suitable prayers and incantations of
a divine or magical power.  Ablutions both of persons and
things are usually cathartic, that is, intended to purge
away evil influences (kathairein, to make katharos,
pure).  But, as Robertson Smith observes, ``holiness is
contagious, just as uncleanness is''; and common things and
persons may become taboo, that is, so holy as to be dangerous
and useless for daily life through the mere infection of
holiness.  Thus in Syria one who touched a dove became taboo
for one whole day, and if a drop of blood of the Hebrew
sin-offering fell on a garment it had to be ritually washed
off.  It was as necessary in the Hebrew religion for the
priest to wash his hands ofter handling the sacred volume as
before.  Christians might not enter a church to say their
prayers without first washing their hands.  So Chrysostom
says: ``Although our hands may be already pure, yet unless
we have washed them thoroughly, we do not spread them upwards
in prayer.'' Tertullian (c. 200) had long before condemned
this as a heathen custom; none the less, it was insisted on
in later ages, and is a survival of the pagan lustrations or
perirranteria. Sozomen (vi. 6) tells how a priest sprinkled
Julian and Valentinian with water according to the heathen custom
as they entered his temple.  The same custom prevails among
Mahommedans.  Porphyry (de Abst. ii. 44) relates that one
who touched a sacrifice meant to avert divine anger must bathe
and wash his clothes in running water before returning to his
city and home, and similar scruples in regard to holy objects
and persons have been observed among the natives of Polynesia,
New Zealand and ancient Egypt.  The rites, met within all
lands, of pouring out water or bathing in order to produce
rain from heaven, differ in their significance from ablutions
with water and belong to the realm of sympathetic magic.

There are certain forms of purification which one does not
know whether to describe as ablutions or anointings.  Thus
Demosthenes in his speech ``On the crown', accused Aeschines
of having ``purified the initiated and wiped them clean
with (not from) mud and pitch.'' Smearing with gypsum
(titanos. titanos) had a similar purifying effect,
and it has been suggested i that the Titans were no more
than old-world votaries who had so disguised themselves.
Perhaps the use of ashes in mourning had the same origin.
In the rite of death-bed penance given in the old Mozarabic
Christian ritual of Spain, ashes were poured over the sick man.

AUTHORITIES.--W.  R. Smith, Religion of the Semites;
Jul. Wellhausen, Reste arabischen Heidentums (=Skizzen und
Verarbeiten, ritualibus (Tubingae, 1732); Art. ``Clean
and Unclean'' in Hastings' Bible Dictionary and in Jewish
Encyclopedia, vol. iv.; J. G. Frazer, Adonis, Attis,
Osiris (London, 1906); Joseph Bingham, Antiquities
(of the Christian Church, bk. viii.; Hermann Oldenberg,
Die Religion des Veda's, Berlin, 1894. (F. C. C.)

ABNAKI (``the whitening sky at daybreak,'' i.e. Easterners),
a confederacy of North American Indians of Algonquian stock,


1 By J. E. Harrison, Prolegomena to Creek Religion, p. 493.


called Terrateens by the New England tribes and colonial
writers.  It included the Passamaquoddy, Penobscot, Norridgewock,
Malecite and other tribes.  It formerly occupied what is now
Maine and southern New Brunswick.  All the tribes were loyal
to the French during the early years of the 18th century, but
after the British success in Canada most of them withdrew to St
Francis, Canada, subsequently entering into an agreement with
the British authorities.  The Abnaki now number some 1600.

For details see Handbook of American Indians,
edited by F. W. Hodge (Washington, 1907). .

ABNER (Hebrew for ``father of [or is a light''), in
the Bible, first cousin of Saul and commander-in-chief of
his army (I Sam. xiv. 50, xx. 25). He is only referred
to incidentally in Saul's history (1 Sam. xvii. 55, xxvi.
5), and is not mentioned in the account of the disastrous
battle of Gilboa when Saul's power was crushed.  Seizing
the only surviving son, Ishbaal, he set him up as king over
Israel at Mahanaim, east of the Jordan.  David, who was
accepted as king by Judah alone, was meanwhile reigning at
Hebron, and for some time war was carried on between the two
parties.  The only engagement between the rival factions which
is told at length is noteworthy, inasmuch as it was preceded
by an encounter at Gibeon between twelve chosen men from each
side, in which the whole twenty-four seem to have perished
(2 Sam. ii. 12).i In the general engagement which followed,
Abner was defeated and put to flight.  He was closely pursued
by Asahel, brother of Joab, who is said to have been ``light
of foot as a wild roe.'' As Asahel would not desist from the
pursuit, though warned, Abner was compelled to slay him in
self-defence.  This originated a deadly feud between the
leaders of the opposite parties, for Joab, as next of kin to
Asahel, was by the law and custom of the country the avenger
of his blood.  For some time afterwards the war was carried
on, the advantage being invariably on the side of David.  At
length Ishbaal lost the main prop of his tottering cause by
remonstrating with Abner for marrying Rizpah, one of Saul's
concubines, an alliance which, according to Oriental notions,
implied pretensions to the throne (cp. 2 Sam. xvi. 21 sqq.; 1
Kings ii. 21 sqq.).  Abner was indignant at the deserved rebuke,
and immediately opened negotiations with David, who welcomed
him on the condition that his wife Michal should be restored to
him.  This was done, and the proceedings were ratified by a
feast.  Almost immediately after, however.  Joab, who had
been sent away, perhaps intentionally returned and slew
Abner at the gate of Hebron.  The ostensible motive for the
assassination was a desire to avenge Asahel, and this would
be a sufficient justification for the deed according to the
moral standard of the time.  The conduct of David after the
event was such as to show that he had no complicity in the
act, though he could not venture to punish its perpetrators
(2 Sam. iii. 31-39; cp. 1 Kings ii. 31 seq.). (See DAVID.)

1 The object of the story of the encounter is to explain the name
Helkath-hazzurim, the meaning of which is doubtful (Ency.  Bib. col.
2006; Batten in Zeit. f. alt-test.  Wissens. 1906, pp. 90 sqq.).

ABO (Finnish Turku), a city and seaport, the capital
of the province of Abo-Bjorneborg, in the grand duchy of
Finland, on the Aura-joki, about 3 m. from where it falls
into the gulf of Bothnia.  Pop. (1810) 10,224; (1870) 19,617;
(1904) 42,639.  It is 381 m. by rail from St Petersburg
via Tavastehus, and is in regular steamer communication
with St Petersburg, Vasa, Stockholm, Copenhagen and Hull.
It was already a place of importance when Finland formed
part of the kingdom of Sweden.  When the Estates of Finland
seceded from Sweden and accepted the Emperor Alexander of
Russia as their grand duke at the Diet of Borga in 1809,
Abo became the capital of the new state, and so remained
till 1819 when the seat of government was transferred to
Helsingfors.  In November 1827 nearly the whole city was burnt
down, the university and its valuable library being entirely
destroyed.  Before this calamity Abo contained 1110 houses
and 13,000 inhabitants; and its university had 40 professors,
more than 500 students, and a library of upwards of 30,000
volumes, together with a botanical garden, an observatory and
a chemical laboratory.  The university has since been removed
to Helsingfors. Abo remains the ecclesiastical capital of
Finland, is the seat of the Lutheran archbishop and contains a
fine cathedral dating from 1258 and restored after the fire of
1827.  The cathedral is dedicated to St Henry, the patron saint
of Finland, an English missionary who introduced Christianity
into the country in the 12th century.  Abo is the seat of the
first of the three courts of appeal of Finland.  It has two high
schools, a school of commerce and a school of navigation.  The
city is second only to Helsingfors for its trade; sail-cloth,
cotton and tobacco are manufactured, and there are extensive
saw-mills.  There is also a large trade in timber and a
considerable butter export.  Ship-building has considerably
developed, torpedo-boats being built here for the Russian
navy.  Vessels drawing 9 or 10 feet come up to the town,
but ships of greater draught are laden and discharged at its
harbour (Bornholm, on Hyrvinsala Island), which is entered
yearly by from 700 to 800 ships, of about 200,000 tons.

ABO-BJORNEBORG, a province occupying the S.W. corner of
Finland and including the Aland islands.  It has a total
area of 24,171 square kilometres and a population (1900) of
447,098, of whom 379,622 spoke Finnish and 67,260 Swedish;
446,900 were of the Lutheran religion.  The province occupies
a prominent position in Finland for its manufacture of cottons,
sugar refinery, wooden goods, metals, machinery, paper, &c.
Its chief towns are: Abo (pop. 42,639), Bjorneborg (16,053),
Raumo (5501), Nystad (4165), Mariehamn (1171), Nadendal (917).

ABODE (from ``abide,'' to dwell, properly ``to wait for'', to
bide), generally, a dwelling.  In English law this term has a
more restricted meaning than domicile, being used to indicate
the place of a man's residence or business, whether that be
either temporary or permanent.  The law may regard for certain
purposes, as a man's abode, the place where he carries on
business, though he may reside elsewhere) so that the term
has come to have a looser significance than residence,
which has been defined as ``where a man lives with his family
and sleeps at night'' (R. v. Hammond, 1852, 17 Q.B.
772).  In serving a notice of action, a solicitor's place of
business may be given as his abode (Roberts v. Williams,
1835, 5 L.J.M.C. 23), and in more recent decisions it
has been similarly held that where a notice was required
to be served under the Public Health Act 18l5, either
personally or to some inmate of the owner's or occupier's
``place of abode,'' a place of business was sufficient.

ABOMASUM (caillette), the fourth or rennet stomach of
Ruminantia.  From the omasum the food is finally deposited
in the abomasum, a cavity considerably larger than either the
second or third stomach, although less than the first.  The base
of the abomasum is turned to the omasum. It is of an irregular
conical form.  It is that part of the digestive apparatus
which is analogous to the single stomach of other Mammalia, as
the food there undergoes the process of chymification, after
being macerated and ground down in the three first stomachs.

ABOMEY, capital of the ancient kingdom of Dahomey, West
Africa, now included in the French colony of the same name.
It is 70 m.  N. by rail of the seaport of Kotonu, and has
a population of about 15,000.  Abomey is built on a rolling
plain, 800 ft. above sea-level, terminating in short bluffs to
the N.W., where it is bounded by a long depression.  The town
was surrounded by a mud wall, pierced by six gates, and was
further protected by a ditch 5 ft. deep, filled with a dense
growth of prickly acacia, the usual defence of West African
strongholds.  Within the walls, which had a circumference of
six miles, were villages separated by fields, several royal
palaces, a market-place and a large square containing the
barracks.  In November 1892, Behanzin, the king of Dahomey,
being defeated by the French, set fire to Abomey and fled
northward.  Under French administration the town has been
rebuilt, placed (1905) in railway communication with the coast,
and given an ample water supply by the sinking of artesian wells.

ABOMINATION (from Lat. ab, from, and ominare, to forebode),
anything contrary to omen, and therefore regarded with aversion;
a word used often in the Bible to denote evil doctrines
or ceremonial practices which were impure. An incorrect
derivation was ab homine (i.e. inhuman), and the spelling of the
adjective ``abominable'' in the first Shakespeare folio is always
``abhominable.'' Colloquially ``abomination'' and ``abominable''
are used to mean simply excessive in a disagreeable sense.

ABOR HILLS, a tract of country on the north-east frontier of
India, occupied by an independent tribe called the Abors.  It
lies north of Lakhimpur district, in the province of eastern
Bengal and Assam, and is bounded on the east by the Mishmi Hills
and on the west by the Miri Hills, the villages of the tribe
extending to the Dibong river.  The term Abor is an Assamese
word, signifying ``barbarous'' or ``independent,'' and is applied
in a general sense by the Assamese to many frontier tribes;
but in its restricted sense it is specially given to the above
tract.  The Abors, together with the cognate tribes of Miris,
Daphlas and Akas, are supposed to be descended from a Tibetan
stock.  They are a quarrelsome and sulky race, violently divided
in their political relations.  In former times they committed
frequent raids upon the plains of Assam, and have been the
object of more than one retaliatory expedition by the British
government.  In 1893-94 occurred the first Bor Abor expedition.
home military police sepoys were murdered in British territory,
and a force of 600 troops was sent, who traversed the Abor
country, and destroyed the villages concerned in the murder
and all other villages that opposed the expedition.  A second
expedition became necessary later on, two small patrols having
been treacherously murdered; and a force of 100 British troops
traversed the border of the Abor country and punished the tribes,
while a blockade was continued against them from 1894 to 1900.

See Colonel Dalton's Ethnology of Bengal, 1872.

ABORIGINES,
a mythical people of central Italy, connected in legendary
history with Aeneas, Latinus and Evander.  They were supposed
to have descended from their mountain home near Reate (an
ancient Sabine town) upon Latium, whence they expelled the
Siceli and subsequently settled down as Latini under a King
Latinus (Dion Halic. i. 9. 60). The most generally accepted
etymology of the name (ab origine), according to which they
were the original inhabitants ( = Gk. autochthones) of the
country, is inconsistent with the fact that the oldest authorities
(e.g. Cato in his Origines) regarded them as Hellenic
immigrants, not as a native Italian people.  Other explanations
suggested are arborigines, ``tree-born,'' and aberrigines,
``nomads.'' Historical and ethnographical discussions have
led to no result; the most that can be said is that, if not
a general term, ``aborigines'' may be the name of an Italian
stock, about whom the ancients knew no more than ourselves`

In modern times the term ``Aborigines'' has been extended in
signification, and is used to indicate the inhabitants found in a
country at its first discovery, in contradistinction to colonies or
new races, the time of whose introduction into the country is known.

The Aborigines' Protection Society was founded in 1838 in
England as the result of a royal commission appointed at
the instance of Sir T. Fowell Buxton to inquire into the
treatment of the indigenous populations of the various British
colonies.  The inquiry revealed the gross cruelty and injustice
with which the natives had been often treated.  Since its
foundation the society has done much to make English colonization
a synonym for humane and generous treatment of savage races.

ABORTION (from Lat. aboriri, to fail to be born, or perish),
in obstetrics, the premature separation and expulsion of the
contents of the pregnant uterus.  It is a common terminology to
call premature labour of an accidental type a ``miscarriage,',
in order to distinguish ``abortion', as a deliberately induced
act, whether as a medical necessity by the accoucheur, or as
a criminal proceeding (see MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE); otherwise
the term ``abortion'' would ordinarily be used when occurring
before the eighth month of gestation, and ``premature labour''
subsequently.  As an accident of pregnancy, it is far fram
uncommon, although its relative frequency'' as compared
with that of completed gestation, has been very differently
estimated by accoucheurs.  It is more liable to occur in
the earlier than in the later months of pregnancy, and
it would also appear to occur more readily at the periods
corresponding to those of the menstrual discharge.  It may
be induced by numerous causes, both of a local and general
nature.  Malformations of the pelvis, accidental injuries
and the diseases and displacements to which the uterus is
liable, on the one hand; and, on the other, various morbid
conditions of the ovum or placenta leading to the death of
the foetus, are among the direct local causes.  The general
causes embrace certain states of the system which are apt to
exercise a more or less direct influence upon the progress of
utero-gestation.  The tendency to recurrence in persons who
have previously miscarried is well known, and should ever
be borne in mind with the view of avoiding any cause likely
to lead to a repetition of the accident.  Abortion resembles
ordinary labour in its general phenomena, excepting that in
the former hemorrhage often to a large extent forms one of
the leading symptoms.  The treatment embraces the means to
be used by rest, astringents and sedatives, to prevent the
occurrence when it merely threatens; or when, on the contrary,
it is inevitable, to accomplish as speedily as possible
the complete removal of the entire contents of the uterus.

Among primitive savage races abortion is practised to a
far less extent than infanticide (q.v.), which offers a
simpler way of getting rid of inconvenient progeny.  But it
is common among the American Indians, as well as in China,
Cambodia and India, although throughout Asia it is generally
contrary both to law and religion.  How far it was considered
a crime among the civilized nations of antiquity has long been
debated.  Those who maintain the impunity of the practice rely
for their authority upon certain passages in the classical
authors, which, while bitterly lamenting the frequency of this
enormity, yet never allude to any laws by which it might be
suppressed.  For example, in one of Plato's dialogues
(Theaet.), Socrates is made to speak of artificial
abortion as a practice, not only common but allowable;
and Plato himself authorizes it in his Republic (lib.
v.).  Aristotle (Polit. 222hb. vii. c. 17) gives it as his
opinion that no child ought to be suffered to come into the
world, the mother being above forty or the father above
fifty-five years of age.  Lysias maintained, in one of his
pleadings quoted by Harpocration, that forced abortion could
not be considered homicide, because a child in utero was
not an animal, and had no separate existence.  Among the
Romans, Ovid (Amor. hb. ii.), Juvenal (Sat. vi. 594) and
Seneca Consol. ad Hel. 16) mention the frequency of the
offence, but maintain silence as to any laws for punishing
it.  On the other hand, it is argued that the authority of
Galen and Cicero (pro Cluentio) place it beyond a doubt
that, so far from being allowed to pass with impunity, the
offence in question was sometimes punished by death; that the
authority of Lysias is of doubtful authenticity; and that the
speculative reasonings of Plato and Aristotle, in matters of
legislation, ought not to be confounded with the actual state
of the laws.  Moreover, Stobaeus (Serm. 73) has preserved
a passage from Musonius, in which that philosopher expressly
states that the ancient law-givers inflicted punishments on
females who caused themselves to abort.  After the spread of
Christianity among the Romans, however, foeticide became equally
criminal with the murder of an adult, and the barbarian hordes
which afterwards overran the empire also treated the offence
as a crime punishable Fith death.  This severe penalty remained
in force in all the countries of Europe until the Middle
Ages.  With the gradual disuse of the old barbarous punishments
so universal in medieval times came also a reversal of opinion as
to the magnitude of the crime involved in killing a child not yet
born.  But the exact period of transition is not clearly marked.

In England the Anglo-Saxons seem to have regarded abortion only
as an ecclesiastical offence.  Sir Matthew Hale (1609-1676)
tells us that if anything is done to ``a woman quick or great
with child, to make an abortion, or whereby the child within
her is killed, it is not murder or manslaughter by the law
of England, because it is not yet in rerum natura.'' But
the common law appears, nevertheless, to have treated as a
misdemeanour any attempt to effect the destruction of such an
infant, though unsuccessful.  Blackstone (1723-1780), to be
sure, a hundred years later, says that, ``if a woman is quick
with child, and by poison or otherwise killeth it in her
womb, or if any one beat her, whereby the child dieth in her
body, and she is delivered of a dead child, this, though not
murder, was, by the ancient law, homicide or manslaughter.''
Whatever may have been the exact view taken by the common
law, the offence was made statutory by an act of 1803, making
the attempt to cause the miscarriage of a woman, not being, or
not being proved, to be quick with child, a felony, punishable
with fine, imprisonment, whipping or transportation for any
term not exceeding fourteen years.  Should the woman have
proved to have quickened, the attempt was punishable with
death.  The provisions of this statute were re-enacted in
1828.  The English law on the subject is now governed by
the Offences against the Person Act 1861, which makes the
attempting to cause miscarriage by administering poison or
other noxious thing, or unlawfully using any instrument equally
a felony, whether the woman be, or be not, with child.  No
distinction is now made as to whether the foetus is or is not
alive, legislation appearing to make the offence statutory
with the object of prohibiting any risk to the life of the
mother.  If a woman administers to herself any poison or
other noxious thing, or unlawfully uses any instrument or
other means to procure her own miscarriage, she is guilty of
felony.  The punishment for the offence is penal servitude
for life or not less than three years, or imprisonment
for not more than two years.  If a child is born alive,
but in consequence of its premature birth, or of the means
employed, afterwards dies, the offence is murder; the
general law as to accessories applies to the offence.

In all the countries of Europe the causing of abortion is now
punishable with more or less lengthy terms of imprisonment.
Indeed, the tendency in continental Europe is to regard the
abortion as a crime against the unborn child, and several
codes (notably that of the German Empire) expressly recognize
the life of the foetus, while others make the penalty more
severe if abortion has been caused in the later stages of
pregnancy, or if the woman is married.  According to the weight
of authority in the United States abortion was not regarded
as a punishable offence at common law, if the abortion was
produced with the consent of the mother prior to the time
when she became quick with child; but the Supreme Courts of
Pennsylvania and North Carolina held it a crime at common
law, which might be committed as soon as gestation had begun
(Mills v. Com. 13 Pa. St. 630; State v. Slagle, 83
N.C. 630).  The attempt is a punishable offence in several
states, but not in Ohio.  Nor was it ever murder at common
law to take the life of the child at any period of gestation,
even in the very act of delivery (Mitchell v. Com. 78 Ky.
204).  If the death of the woman results it is murder at
common law (Com. v. Parker, 9 Met. [Mass.] 263).  It is
now a statutory offence in all states of the Union, but the
woman must be actually pregnant.  In most states not only is
the person who causes the abortion punishable, but also any
one who supplies any drug or instrument for the purpose.  The
woman, however, is not an accomplice (except by statute as in
Ohio, State v. M`Coy, 39 N.E. 316), nor is she guilty
of any crime unless by statute as in New York (Penal Code,
sec.  295) and California (Penal Code, sec.  275) and Connecticut
(Gen.  Stats. 1902, sec.  1156).  She may be a witness, and her
testimony does not need corroboration.  The attempt is also a
crime in New York (1905, People v. Conrad, 102 App. D. 566).

AUTHORITIES.---Ploncouet, Commentarius Medicus in processus
criminales super homicidie et infanticidio, &c. (1736);
Burao Ryan, Infanticide, its Law, Prevalence, Prevention
and History (1862); G. Greaves, Observations on the Laws
referring to Child-Murder and Criminal Abortion (1864);
Storer and Heard, Criminal Abortion, its Nature, Evidence
and Law (Boston, 1868); J. Cave Browne, Infanticide, its
Origin, Progress and Suppression (1857); T. R. Beck, Medical
Jurisprudence (1842); A. S. Taylor, Principles and Practice
of Medical Jurisprudence (1894); Sir J. Stephen, History
of the Criminal Law of England (1883); Sir W. O. Russell,
Crimes and Misdemeanours (3 vols., 1896); Archbold's
Pleading and Evidence in Criminal:Cases (1900); Roscoe's
Evidence in Criminall Cases (1898) Treub, van Oppenraag and
Vlaming, The Right to Life of the Unborn Child (New
York, 1903); L. Hochheimer, Crimes and Criminal Procedure
(York, 1897); A. A. Tardieu, Etude medico-legal sur
l'avortement (Paris, 1904); F. Berolzheimer, System der
Rechts- und Wissenschaftsphilosophie (Munich, 1904).

ABOUKIR, a village on the Mediterranean coast of Egypt, 14 1/2
m.  N.E. of Alexandria by rail, containing a castle used
as a state prison by Mehemet Ali. Near the village are
many remains of ancient buildings, Egyptian, Greek and
Roman.  About 2 m.  S.E. of the village are ruins supposed to
mark the site of Canopus.  A little farther east the Canopic
branch of the Nile (now dry) entered the Mediterranean.

Stretching eastward as far as the Rosetta mouth of the
Nile is the spacious bay of Aboukir, where on the 1st of
August 1798 Nelson fought the battle of the Nile, often
referred to as the battle of Aboukir.  The latter title is
applied more properly to an engagement between the French
expeditionary army and the Turks fought on the 25th of July
1799.  Near Aboukir, on the 8th of March 1801, the British
army commanded by Sir R. Abercromby landed from its transports
in the face of a strenuous opposition from a French force
entrenched on the beach. (See FRENCH REVOLUTIONARY WARS.)

ABOUT, EDMOND FRANCOIS VALENTIN (1828-1885), French novelist,
publicist and journalist, was born on the 14th of February
1828, at Dieuze, in Lorraine.  The boy's school career was
brilliant.  In 1848 he entered the Ecole Normale, taking the
second place in the annual competition for admission, Taine being
first.  Among his college contemporaries were Taine, Francisque,
Sarcey, Challemel-Lacour and the ill-starred Prevost-Paradol.
Of them all About was, according to Sarcey, the most highly
vitalized, exuberant, brilliant and ``undisciplined.'' At
the end of his college career he joined the French school in
Athens, but if we may believe his own account, it had never
been his intention to follow the professorial career, for
which the Ecole Normale was a preparation, and in 1853 he
returned to France and frankly gave himself to literature and
journalism.  A book on Greece, La Grece contemporaine (1855),
which did not spare Greek susceptibilities, had an immediate
success.  In Tolla (1855) About was charged with drawing too
freely on an earlier Italian novel, Vittoria Savelii (Paris,
1841).  This caused a strong prejudice against him, and he
was the object of numerous attacks, to which he was ready
enough to retaliate.  The Lettres d'un bon jeune homme,
written to the Figaro under the signature of Valentin de
Quevilly, provoked more animosities.  During the next few
years, with indefatigable energy, and generally with full
public recognition, he wrote novels, stories, a play---which
failed,---a book-pamphlet on the Roman question, many
pamphlets on other subjects of the day, newspaper articles
innumerable, some art criticisms, rejoinders to the attacks
of his enemies, and popular manuals of political economy, L'A
B C du travailleur (1868), Le progres (1864).  About's
attitude towards the empire was that of a candid friend.  He
believed in its improvability, greeted the liberal ministry
of Emile Ollivier at the beginning of 1870 with delight and
welcomed the Franco-German War. That day of enthusiasm had a
terrible morrow.  For his own personal part he lost the loved
home near Saverne in Alsace, which he had purchased in 1858
out of the fruits of his earlier literary successes.  With
the fall of the empire he became a republican, and, always an
inveterate anti-clerical, he threw himself with ardour into
the battle against the conservative reaction which made head
during the first years of the republic.  From 1872 onwards
for some five or six years his paper, the XIXe Siecle,
of which he was the heart and soul, became a power in the
land.  But the republicans never quite forgave the tardiness
of his conversion, and no place rewarded his later zeal.  On
the 23rd January 1884 he was elected a member of the French
Academy, but died on the 16th of January 1885, before taking his
seat.  His journalism---of which specimens in his earlier
and later manners will be found in the two series of Lettres
d'un bon jeune homme a sa cousine Madeleine (1861 and
1863), and the posthumous Collection, Le dix-neuvieme
siecle (1892)---was of its nature ephemeral.  So were
the pamphlets, great and small.  His political economy
was that of an orthodox popularizer, and in no sense epoch.
making.  His dramas are negligible.  His more serious novels,
Madelon (1863), L'infame (1867), the three that form the
trilogy of the Vieille Roche (1866), and Le roman d'un
brave homme (1880)---a kind of counterblast to the view of
the French workman presented in Zola's Assommoir---contain
striking and amusing scenes, no doubt, but scenes which are
often suggestive of the stage, while description, dissertation,
explanation too frequently take the place of life.  His best
work after all is to be found in the books that are almost
wholly farcical, Le nez d'un notaire (1862); Le roi des
montagnes (1856); L'homme a l'oreille cassee (1862);
Trente et quarante (1858); Le cas de M. Guerin (1862).
Here his most genuine wit, his sprightliness, his vivacity,
the fancy that was in him, have free play. ``You will never
be more than a little Voltaire,'' said one of his masters when
he was a lad at school.  It was a true prophecy. (F. T. M.)

ABRABANEL, ISAAC, called also ABRAVANEL, ABARBANEL
(1437-1508), Jewish statesman, philosopher, theologian and
commentator, was born at Lisbon of an ancient family which
claimed descent from the royal house of David.  Like many of
the Spanish Jews he united scholarly tastes with political
ability He held a high place in the favour of King Alphonso
V., who entrusted him with the management of important state
affairs.  On the death of Alphonso in 1481, his counsellors
and favourites were harshly treated by his successor John,
and Abrabanel was compelled to flee to Spain, where he held
for eight years (14841492) the post of a minister of state
under Ferdinand and Isabella.  When the Jews were banished
from Spain in 1492, no exception was made in Abrabanel's
favour.  He afterwards resided at Naples, Corfu and Monopoli,
and in 1503 removed to Venice, where he held office as a
minister of state till his death in 1508.  His repute as
a commentator on the Scriptures is still high; in the 17th
and 18th centuries he was much read by Christians such as
Buxtorf.  Abrabanel often quotes Christian authorities,
though he opposed Christian exegesis of Messianic passages.
He was one of the first to see that for Biblical exegesis it
was necessary to reconstruct the social environment of olden
times, and he skilfully applied his practical knowledge of
statecraft to the elucidation of the books of Samuel and Kings.

ABRACADABRA, a word analogous to Abraxas (q.v.), used as
a magical formula by the Gnostics of the sect of Basilides
in invoking the aid of beneficent spirits against disease and
misfortune.  It is found on Abraxas stones which were worn as
amulets.  Subsequently its use spread beyond the Gnostics,
and in modern times it is applied contemptuously (e g. by
the early opponents of the evolution theory) to a conception
or hypothesis which purports to be a simple solution of
apparently insoluble phenomena.  The Gnostic physician Serenus
Sammonicus gave precise instructions as to its mystical use
in averting or curing agues and fevers generally.  The paper
on which the word was written had to be folded in the form
of a cross, suspended from the neck by a strip of linen so
as to rest on the pit of the stomach, worn in this way for
nine days, and then, before sunrise, cast behind the wearer
into a stream running to the east.  The letters were usually
arranged as a triangle in one of the following ways:--



 ABRACADABRA ABRACADABRA

 ABRACADABR BRACADABR

 ABRACADAB RACADAB

 ABRACADA ACADA

 ABRACAD CAD

 ABRACA A

 ABRAC

 ABRA

 ABR.

 AB

 A


ABRAHAM, or ABRAM (Hebrew for ``father is high''), the
ancestor of the Israelites, the first of the great Biblical
patriarchs.  His life as narrated in the book of Genesis
reflects the traditions of different ages.  It is the latest
writer (P) who mentions Abram (the original form of the name),
Nahor and Haran, sons of Terah, at the close of a genealogy
of the sons of Shem, which includes among its members Eber
the eponym of the Hebrews.  Terah is said to have come from
Ur of the Chaldees, usually identified with Mukayyar in south
Babylonia.  He migrated to Haran1 in Mesopotamia, apparently
the classical Carrhae, on a branch of the Habor.  Thence,
after a short stay, Abram with his wife Sarai, and Lot
the son of Haran, and all their followers, departed for
Canaan.  The oldest tradition does not know of this twofold
move, and seems to locate Abram's birthplace and the homes
of his kindred at Haran (Gen. xxiv. 4, 7, xxvii. 43). At
the divine command, and encouraged by the promise that Yahweh
would make of him, although hitherto childless, a great
nation, he journeyed down to Shechem, and at the sacred tree
(cf. xxxv. 4, Josh. xxiv. 26, Judg. ix. 6) received a new
promise that the land would be given unto his seed.  Having
built an altar to commemorate the theophany, he removed to a
spot between Bethel and Ai, where he built another altar and
called upon (i.e. invoked) the name of Yahweh (Gen. xii.
1-9).  Here he dwelt for some time, until strife arose between
his herdsmen and those of Lot. Abram thereupon proposed to Lot
that they should separate, and allowed his nephew the first
choice.  Lot preferred the fertile land lying east of the
Jordan, whilst Abram, after receiving another promise from
Yahweh, moved down to the oaks of Mamre in Hebron and built an
altar.  In the subsequent history of Lot and the destruction
of Sodom and Gomorrah, Abram appears prominently in a
fine passage where he intercedes with Yahweh on behalf of
Sodom, and is promised that if ten righteous men can be
found therein the city shall be preserved (xviii. 16-33).

A peculiar passage, more valuable for the light it throws upon
primitive ideas than for its contribution to the history of
Abram, narrates the patriarch's visit to Egypt.  Driven by a
famine to take refuge in Egypt (cf. xxvi. 11 xli. 57, xlii.
1), he feared lest his wife's beauty should arouse the evil
designs of the Egyptians and thus endanger his own safety,
and alleged that Sarai was his sister.  This did not save
her from the Pharaoh, who took her into the royal harem and
enriched Abram with herds and servants.  But when Yahweh
``plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues'' suspicion
was aroused, and the Pharaoh rebuked the patriarch for his
deceit and sent him away under an escort (xii. 10-xiii.
1). This story of Abram and his increased wealth (xiii. 2)
receives no comment at the hands of the narrator, and in its
present position would make Sarai over sixty years of age
(xii. 4, xvii. 1, 17). A similar experience is said to have
happened to Abraham and Sarah at Gerar with the Philistine
king Abimelech (xx. E), but the tone of the narrative is
noticeably more advanced, and the presents which the patriarch
receives are compensation for the king's offence.  Here,
however, Sarah has reached her ninetieth year (xvii. 17).
(The dates are due to the post-exilic framework in which
the stories are inserted.) Still another episode of the same
nature is re-corded of Isaac and Rebekah at Gerar, also with
Abimelech.  Ethically it is the loftiest, and Isaac obtains
his wealth simply through his successful farming.  Arising out
of the incident is an account of a covenant between Abimelech
and Isaac (xxvi. 16-33, J), a duplicate of which is placed in
the time of Abraham (xxi. 22-34, J and E). Beersheba, which
figures in both, is celebrated by the planting of a sacred
tree and (like Bethel) by the invocation of the name of
Yahweh.  This district is the scene of the birth of Ishmael
and Isaac.  As Sarai was barren (cf. xi. 30)2 the promise
that his seed should possess the land seemed incapable of
fulfilment.  According to one rather obscure narrative,
Abram's sole heir was the servant, who was over his household,
apparently a certain Eliezer of Damascus3 (xv. 2, the text is
corrupt).  He is now promised as heir one of his own flesh,
and a remarkable and solemn passage records bow the promise
was ratified by a covenant.  The description is particularly
noteworthy for the sudden appearance of birds of prey,
which attempted to carry off the victims of the sacrificial
covenant.  The interpretation of the evil omen is explained
by an allusion to the bondage of the Israelites in Egypt
and their return in the fourth generation (xv. 16; contrast
v. 13, after four hundred years; the chapter is extremely
intricate and has the appearance of being of secondary
origin).  The main narrative now relates how Sarai, in
accordance with custom, gave to Abram her Egyptian handmaid
Hagar, who, when she found she was with child, presumed upon
her position to the extent that Sarai, unable to endure the
reproach of barrenness (cf. the story of Hannah, 1 Sam. i.
6), dealt harshly with her and forced her to flee (xvi.
1-14, J; on the details see ISHMAEL.) Another tradition
places the expulsion of Hagar after the birth of Isaac.
It was thirteen years after the birth of Ishmael, according
to the latest narratives, that God appeared unto Abram with
a renewed promise that his posterity should inhabit the
land.  To mark the solemnity of the occasion, the patriarch's
name was changed to Abraham, and that of his wife to Sarah.4
A covenant was concluded with him for all time, and as a sign
thereof the rite of circumcision was instituted (xvii.  P).
The promise of a son to Sarah made Abraham ``laugh'', a punning
allusion to the name Isaac (q.v.) which appears again in other
forms.  Thus, it is Sarah herself who ``laughs'' at the
idea, when Yahweh appears to Abraham at Mamre (xviii. 1-15,
J), or who, when the child is horn cries ``God hath made
me laugh; every one that heareth will laugh at me'' (xxi.
6, E). Finally, there is yet another story which attributes
the flight of Hagar and Ishmael to Sarah's jealousy at the
sight of Ishmael's ``mocking'' (rather dancing or playing, the
intensive form of the verb ``to laugh'') on the feast day when
Isaac was weaned (xxi. 8 sqq.).  But this last story is clearly
out of place, since a child who was then fourteen years old
(cf. xvii. 24, xxi. 5) could scarcely be described as a weak
babe who had to be carried (xxi. 14; see the commentaries).

Abraham was now commanded by God to offer up Isaac in the land of
Moriah.  Proceeding to obey, he was prevented by an angel as
he was about to sacrifice his son, and slew a ram which he
found on the spot.  As a reward for his obedience he received
another promise of a numerous seed and abundant prosperity
(xxii.  E). Thence he returned to Beersheba.  The story is
one of the few told by E, and significantly teaches that human
sacrifice was not required by the Almighty (cf. Mic. vi. 7
seq.).  The interest of the narrative now extends to Isaac
alone.  To his ``only son'' (cp. xxii. 2, 12) Abraham gave
all he had, and dismissed the sons of his concubines to the
lands outside Palestine; they were thus regarded as less
intimately related to Isaac and his descendants (xxv. 1-4,
6). The measures taken by the patriarch for the marriage
of Isaac are circumstantially described.  His head-servant
was sent to his master's country and kindred to find a
suitable bride, and the necessary preparation for the story
is contained in the description of Nahor's family (xxii.
20-24).  The picturesque account of the meeting with Rebekah
throws interesting light on oriental custom.  Marriage with
one's own folk (cf. Gen. xxvii. 46, xxix. 19; Judg. xiv. 3),
and especially with a cousin, is recommended now even as in the
past.  For its charm the story is comparable with the account
of Jacob's experiences in the same land (xxix.).  For the
completion of the history of Abraham the compiler of Genesis
has used P's narrative.  Sarah is said to have died at a good
old age, and was buried in the cave of Machpelah near Hebron,
which the patriarch had purchased, with the adjoining field,
from Ephron the Hittite (xxiii.); and here he himself was
buried.  Centuries later the tomb became a place of pilgrimage
and the traditional site is marked by a fine mosque.5

The story of Abraham is of greater value for the study of
Old Testament theology than for the history of Israel.  He
became to the Hebrews the embodiment of their ideals, and
stood at their head as the founder of the nation, the one to
whom Yahweh had manifested his love by frequent promises and
covenants.  From the time when he was bidden to leave his
country to enter the unknown land, Yahweh was ever present to
encourage him to trust in the future when his posterity should
possess the land, and so, in its bitterest hours, Israel could
turn for consolation to the promises of the past which enshrined
in Abraham its hopes for the future.  Not only is Abraham the
founder of religion, but he, of all the patriarchal figures,
stands out most prominently as the recipient of the promises
(xii. 2 seq. 7, xiii. 14-17, xv., xvii., xviii. 17-19, xxii.
17 seq.; cf. xxiv. 7), and these the apostle Paul associates
with the coming of Christ, and, adopting a characteristic
and artificial style of interpretation prevalent in his time,
endeavours to force a Messianic interpretation out of them.6

For the history of the Hebrews the life of Abraham is of the
same value as other stories of traditional ancestors.  The
narratives, viewed dispassionately, represent him as an
idealized sheikh (with one important exception, Gen. xiv.,
see below), about whose person a number of stories have
gathered.  As the father of Isaac and Ishmael, he is ultimately
the common ancestor of the Israelites and their nomadic
fierce neighbours, men roving unrestrainedly like the wild
ass, troubled by and troubling every one (xvi. 12). As the
father of Midian, Sheba and other Arabian tribes (xxv. 1-4),
it is evident that some degree of kinship was felt by the
Hebrews with the dwellers of the more distant south, and
it is characteristic of the genealogies that the mothers
(Sarah, Hagar and Keturah) are in the descending scale as
regards purity of blood.  This great ancestral figure came,
it was said, from Ur in Babylonia and Haran and thence to
Canaan.  Late tradition supposed that the migration was
to escape Babylonian idolatry (Judith v., Jubilees xii.;
cf.  Josh. xxiv. 2), and knew of Abraham's miraculous escape
from death (an obscure reference to some act of deliverance
in Is. xxix. 22). The route along the banks of the Euphrates
from south to north was so frequently taken by migrating
tribes that the tradition has nothing improbable in itself,
but the prominence given in the older narratives to the view
that Haran was the home gives this the preference.  It was
thence that Jacob, the father of the tribes of Israel, came
and the route to Shechem and Bethel is precisely the same in
both.  A twofold migration is doubtful, and, from what is
known of the situation in Palestine in the 15th century
B.C., is extremely improbable.  Further, there is yet
another parallel in the story of the conquest by Joshua
(q.v.), partly implied and partly actually detailed (cf.
also Josh. viii. 9 with Gen. xii. 8, xiii. 3), whence it would
appear that too much importance must not be laid upon any
ethnological interpretation which fails to account for the three
versions.  That similar traditional elements have influenced
them is not unlikely; but to recover the true historical
foundation is difficult.  The invasion or immigration of
certain tribes from the east of the Jordan; the presence
of Aramaean blood among the Israelites (see JACOB); the
origin of the sanctity of venerable sites,---these and other
considerations may readily be found to account .for the
traditions.  Noteworthy coincidences in the lives of Abraham
and Isaac, noticed above, point to the fluctuating state of
traditions in the oral stage, or suggest that Abraham's life
has been built up by borrowing from the common stock of popular
lore.7 More original is the parting of Lot and Abraham at
Bethel.  The district was the scene of contests between
Moab and the Hebrews (cf. perhaps Judg. iii.), and if this
explains part of the story, the physical configuration of
the Dead Sea may have led to the legend of the destruction of
inhospitable and vicious cities (see SODOM AND GOMORRAH.)

Different writers have regarded the life of Abraham differently.
He has been viewed as a chieftain of the Amorites (q.v.),
as the head of a great Semitic migration from Mesopotamia;
or, since Ur and Haran were seats of Moon-worship, he has
been identified with a moon-god.  From the character of
the literary evidence and the locale of the stories it
has been held that Abraham was originally associated with
Hebron.  The double name AbramAbraham has even suggested
that two personages have been combined in the Biblical
narrative; although this does not explain the change from
Sarai to Sarah.8 But it is important to remember that the
narratives are not contemporary, and that the interesting
discovery of the name Abi-ramu (Abram) on Babylonian contracts
of about 2000 B.C. does not prove the Abram of the Old
Testament to be an historical person, even as the fact that
there were ``Amorites'' in Babylonia at the same period
does not make it certain that the patriarch was one of their
number.  One remarkable chapter associates Abraham with
kings of Elam and the east (Gen. xiv.).  No longer a peaceful
sheikh but a warrior with a small army of 318 followers,9
he overthrows a combination of powerful monarchs who have
ravaged the land.  The genuineness of the narrative has been
strenuously maintained, although upon insufficient grounds.

``It is generally recognized that this chapter holds quite
an isolated place in the Pentateuchal history; it is the
only passage which presents Abraham in the character of a
warrior, and connects him with historical names and political
movements, and there are no clear marks by which it can be
assigned to any one of the documents of which Genesis is made
up.  Thus, while one school of interpreters finds in the chapter
the earliest fragment of the political history of western Asia,
some even holding with Ewald that the narrative is probably
based on old Canaanite records, other critics, as Noldeke,
regard the whole as unhistorical and comparatively late in
origin.  On the latter view, which finds its main support 1n the
intrinsic difficulties of the narrative, it is scarcely possible
to avoid the conclusion that the chapter is one of the latest
additions to the Pentateuch (Wellhausen and many others).''

On the assumption that a recollection of some invasion in
remote days may have been current, considerable interest is
attached to the names.  Of these, Amraphel, king of Shinar
(i.e. Babylonia, Gen. x. 10), has been identified with
Khammurabi, one of the greatest of the Babylonian kings
(c. 2000 B.C.), and since he claims to have ruled as
far west as the Mediterranean Sea, the equation has found
considerable favour.  Apart from chronological difficulties,
the identification of the king and his country is far from
certain, and at the most can only be regarded as possible.
Arioch, king of Ellasar, has been connected with Eriaku of
Larsa--the reading has been questioned---a contemporary with
Khammurabi.  Chedorlaomer, king of Elam, bears what is
doubtless a genuine Elamite name.  Finally, the name of Tid'al,
king of Goiim, may be identical with a certain Tudhulu the
son of Gazza, a warrior, but apparently not a king, who is
mentioned in a Babylonian inscription, and Goiim may stand
for Gutim, the Guti being a people who lived to the east of
Kurdistan.  Nevertheless, there is as yet no monumental
evidence in favour of the genuineness of the story, and at
the most it can only be said that the author (of whatever
date) has derived his names from a trustworthy source,
and in representing an invasion of Palestine by Babylonian
overlords has given expression to a possible situation.11
The improbabilities and internal difficulties of the narrative
remain untouched, only the bare outlines may very well be
historical.  If, as most critics agree, it is a historical
romance (cf., e.g., the book of Judith), it is possible
that a writer, preferably one who lived in the post-exilic
age and was acquainted with Babylonian history, desired to
enhance the greatness of Abraham by exhibiting his military
success against the monarchs of the Tigris and Euphrates,
the high esteem he enjoyed in Palestine and his lofty
character as displayed in his interview with Melchizedek.

See further, Pinches, Old Test. in Light of Hist.  Records,
pp. 208. 236) Driver, Genesis, p. xlix., and notes on ch.
xiv.; Addis, Documents of the Hexateuch, ii. pp. 208-213;
Carpenter and Harford-Battersby, The Hexateuch, i. pp.
157-159, 168, Bezold, Bab.-Assyr. Keilinschriften, pp. 24
sqq., 54 sqq.; A. Jeremias, Altes Test. im Lichte d.  Alten
Orients,2,, pp. 343 seq.; also the literature to the art.
GENESIS.  Many fanciful legends about Abraham founded on
Biblical accounts or spun out of the fancy are to be found in
Josephus, and in post-Biblical and Mahommedan literature;
for these, reference may be made to Beer, Leben Abrahams
(1859); Grunbaum, Neue Beitrage z. semit.  Sagenkunde,
pp. 89 seq. (1893); the apocryphal ``Testament of Abraham''
(M. R. James in Texts and Studies, 1892); W. Tisdall,
Original Sources of the Quran, passim (1905). (S. A. C.)

1 The name is not spelt with the same guttural as Haran the son of Terah.

2 Barrenness is a motif which recurs in the stories
of Rebekah, Rachel, the mother of Samson, and Hannah
(Gen. xxv. 21, xxix. 31; Judg. xiii. 2; 1 Sam. i. 5).

3Ebram's connexion with Damascus is supplemented in the traditions
of Nicolaus of Damascus as cited by Josephus (Antiq. 1. 7. 2).

4 Abram (or Abiram) is a familiar and old-attested name meaning
``(my) father is exalted''; the meaning of Abraham is obscure a,nd
the explanation Gen. xvii. 3 is mere word-play.  It is possible
that raham was originally only a dialectical form of ram.

5 See Sir Charles Warren's description, Hasting's Dict.
Bible, vol. iii. pp. 200 seq.  The so-called Babylonian colouring
of Gen. xxiii. has been much exaggerated; see S. R. Driver,
Genesis, ad loc.; S. A, Cook, Laws of Moses, p. 208.

6 See H. St. J. Thackeray, Relation of St Paul to
Contemporary Jewish Thought, p. 69 seq. (1900).

7 On the other hand, the coincidences in xx. xxi.
are due to E, who is also the author of xxii.  Apart
from these the narratives of Abraham are from J and P.

8 According to Breasted (Amer.  Journ. of Sem. Lit.,
1904, p. 56), the ``field of Abram'' occurs among the places
mentioned in the list of the Egyptian king Shishak (No. 71-2)
in the 10th century.  See also his History of Egypt, p. 530.

9 The number is precisely that of the total numerical
value of the consonants of the name ``Eliezer'' (Gen.
xv. 2); an astral signification has also been found.

10 W. R. Smith, Ency.  Brit. (9th ed., 1883), art. ``Melchizedek.''

11 That the names may be those of historical personages
is no proof of historical accuracy: ``We cannot therefore
conclude that the whole account is accurate history, any more
than we can argue that Sir Walter Scott's Anne of Geirstein
is throughout a correct account of actual events because we
know that Charles the Bold and Margaret of Anjou were real
people'' (W. H. Bennett, Century Bible: Genesis, p. 186).

ABRAHAM A SANCTA CLARA (1644-1709), Austrian divine,
was born at Kreenheinstetten, near Messkirch, in July
1644.  His real name was Ulrich Megerle.  In 1662 he joined
the order of Barefooted Augustinians, and assumed the name
by which he is known.  In this order he rose step by step
until he became prior provincialis and definitor of his
province.  Having early gained a great reputation for pulpit
eloquence, he was appointed court preacher at Vienna in
1669.  The people flocked to hear him, attracted by the
force and homeliness of his language, the grotesqueness of
his humour, and the impartial severity with which he lashed
the follies of all classes of society and of the court in
particular.  In general he spoke as a man of the people, the
predominating quality of his style being an overflowing and
often coarse wit.  There are, however, many passages in his
sermons in which he rises to loftier thought and uses more
dignified language.  He died at Vienna on the 1st of December
1709.  In his published writings he displayed much the same
qualities as in the pulpit.  Perhaps the most favourable
specimen of his style is his didactic novel entitled
Judas der Erzschelm (4 vols., Salzburg, 1686-1695).

His works have been several times reproduced in whole or
in part though with many serious interpolations.  The best
edition is that published in 21 vols. at Passau and Lindau
(1835-1854).  See Th. G. von Karaiesn, Abraham a Sancta
Clara (Vienna, 1867); Wanckenburr, Studien uber die Sprache
Abrahams al S. C. (Halle, 1897); Sexto, Abraham a S. C.
(Sigmaringen, 1896); Schnell, Pater A. a S. C. (Munich,
1895); H. Mareta, Uber Judas d.  Erzschelm (Vienna, 1875).

ABRAHAM IBN DAUD (c. 1110-1180), Jewish historiographer
and philosopher of Toledo.  His historical work was the
Book of Tradition (Sepher Haqabala), a chronicle down
to the year 1161.  This was a defence of the traditional
record, and also contains valuable information for the
medieval period.  It was translated into Latin by Genebrad
(1519).  His philosophy was expounded in an Arabic work
better known under its Hebrew title 'Emunah Ramah
(Sublime Faith.) This was translated into German by Well
(1882).  Ibn Daud was one of the first Jewish scholastics to
adopt the Aristotelian system; his predecessors were mostly
neo-Platonists.  Maimonides owed a good deal to him.

ABRAHAMITES, a sect of deists in Bohemia in the 18th
century, who professed to be followers of the pre-circumcised
Abraham.  Believing in one God, they contented themselves
with the Decalogue and the Paternoster.  Declining to be
classed either as Christians or Jews, they were excluded from
the edict of toleration promulgated by the emperor Joseph
II. in 1781, and deported to various parts of the country,
the men being drafted into frontier regiments.  Some became
Roman Catholics, and those who retained their ``Abrahamite',
views were not able to hand them on to the next generation.

ABRAHAM-MEN, the nickname for vagrants who infested England
in Tudor times.  The phrase is certainly as old as 1561, and
was due to these beggars pretending that they were patients
discharged from the Abraham ward at Bedlam.  The genuine
Bedlamite was allowed to roam the country on his discharge,
soliciting alms, provided he wore a badge. This humane
privilege was grossly abused, and thus gave
rise to the slang phrase ``to sham Abraham.''

ABRANTES, a town of central Portugal, in the district of
Santarem, formerly included in the province of Estremadura;
on the right bank of the river Tagus, at the junction of
the Madrid-Badajoz--Lisbon railway with the Guarda-Abrantes
line.  Pop. (1900) 7255.  Abrantes, which occupies the crest
of a hill covered with olive woods, gardens and vines, is a
fortified town, with a thriving trade in fruit, olive oil and
grain.  As it commands the highway down the Tagus valley to
Lisbon, it has usually been regarded as an important military
position.  Originally an Iberian settlement, founded about
300 B.C., it received the name Aurantes from the Romans;
perhaps owing to the alluvial gold (aurum) found along the
Tagub.  Roman mosaics, coins, the remains of an aqueduct, and
other antiquities have been discovered in the neighbourhood.
Abrantes was captured on the 24th of November 1807 by the
French under General Junot, who for this achievement was created
duke of Abrantes.  By the Convention of Cintra (22nd of August
1808) the town was restored to the British and Portuguese.

ABRASION (from Lat. ab, off, and radere, to scrape), the
process of rubbing off or wearing down, as of rock by moving
ice, or of coins by wear and tear; also used of the results of
such a process as an abrasion or excoriation of the skin.  In
machinery, abrasion between moving surfaces has to be prevented as
much as possible by the use of suitable materials, good fitting and
lubrication.  Engineers and other craftsmen make extensive use
of abrasion, effected by the aid of such abrasives as emery and
carborundum, in shaping, finishing and polishing their work.

ABRAUM SALTS (from the German Abraum-salze, salts
to be removed), the name given to a mixed deposit of
salts, including halite, carnallite, kieserite, &c., found
in association with rocksalt at Stassfurt in Prussia.

ABRAXAS, or ABRASAX, a word engraved on certain antique
stones, called on that account Abraxas stones, which were used
as amulets or charms.  The Basilidians, a Gnostic sect, attached
importance to the word, if, indeed, they did not bring it into
use.  The letters of abraxas, in the Greek notation, make
up the number 365, and the Basilidians gave the name to the
365 orders of spirits which, as they conceived, emanated in
succession from the Supreme Being.  These orders were supposed
to occupy 365 heavens, each fashioned like, but inferior
to that above it; and the lowest of the heavens was thought
to be the abode of the spirits who formed the earth and its
inhabitants, and to whom was committed the administration of
its affairs.  Abraxas stones are of very little value.  In
addition to the word Abraxas and other mystical characters,
they have often cabalistic figures engraved on them.  The
commonest of these have the head of a fowl, and the arms and
bust of a man, and terminate in the body and tail of a serpent.

ABROGATION (Lat. abrogare, to repeal or annul a law;
rogare, literally ``to ask,'' to propose a law), the
annulling or repealing of a law by legislative action.
Abrogation, which is the total annulling of a law, is to
be distinguished from the term derogation, which is used
where a law is only partially abrogated.  Abrogation may be
either express or implied.  It is express either when the new
law pronounces the annulment in general terms, as when in a
concluding section it announces that all laws contrary to the
provisions of the new one are repealed, or when in particular
terms it announces specifically the preceding laws which it
repeals.  It is implied when the new law contains provisions
which are positively contrary to the former laws without
expressly abrogating those laws, or when the condition of things
for which the law had provided has changed and consequently
the need for the law no longer exists.  The abrogation of
any statute revives the provisions of the common law which
had been abrogated by that statute.  See STATUTE; REPEAL.

ABRUZZI E MOLISE, a group of provinces (compartimento)
of Southern Italy, bounded N. by the province of Ascoli, N.W.
and W. by Perueia, S.W. by Rome and Casertz, S. by Benevento.
E. by Foggia and N.E. by the Adriatic Sea. It comprises the
provinces of Teramo (population in 1901, 307,444), Aquila
(396,620), Chieti (370,907) and Campobasso (366,571), which,
under the kingdom of Naples, respectively bore the names
Abruzzo Ulteriore I., Abruzzo Ulteriore II., Abruzzo Citeriore
(the reference being to their distance from the capital) and
Molise.  The total area is 6567 sq. m. and the population
(1901) 1,441,551.  The district is mainly mountainous in the
interior, including as it does the central portion of the
whole system of the Apennines and their culminating point,
the Gran Sasso d'Italia. Towards the sea the elevation
is less considerable, the hills consisting mainly of somewhat
unstable clay and sand, but the zone of level ground along
the coast is quite inconsiderable.  The coast line itself,
though over 100 miles in length, has not a single harbour of
importance.  The climate varies considerably with the
altitude, the highest peaks being covered with snow for the
greater part of the year, while the valleys running N.E.
towards the sea are fertile and well watered by several small
rivers, the chief of which are the Tronto, Vomano, Pescara,
Sangro, Trigno and Biferno.  These are fed by less important
streams, such as the Aterno and Gizio, which water the valleys
between the main chains of the Apennines.  They are liable to
be suddenly swollen by rains, and floods and landslips often
cause considerable damage.  This danger has been increased,
as elsewhere in Italy, by indiscriminate timber-felling on
the higher mountains without provision for re-afforestation,
though considerable oak, beech, elm and pine forests still
exist and are the home of wolves, wild boars and even
bears.  They also afford feeding-ground for large herds of
swine, and the hams and sausages of the Abruzzi enjoy a high
reputation.  The rearing of cattle and sheep was at one time
the chief occupation of the inhabitants, and many of them
still drive their flocks down to the Campagna di Roma for the
winter months and back again in the summer, but more attention
is now devoted to cultivation.  This flourishes especially in
the valleys and in the now drained bed of the Lago Fucino.
The industries are various, but none of them is of great
importance.  Arms and cutlery are produced at Campobasso and
Agnone.  At the exhibition of Abruzzese art, held at Chieti
in 1905, fine specimens of goldsmiths' work of the 15th and
16th centuries, of majolica of the 17th and 18th centuries,
and of tapestries and laces were brought together; and the
reproduction of some of these is still carried on, the small
town of Castelli being the centre of the manufacture.  The river
Pescara and its tributary the Tirino form an important source
of power for generating electricity.  The chief towns are (1)
Teramo, Atri, Campli, Penne, Castellammare Adriatico; (2)
Aquila, Avezzano, Celano, Tagliacozzo, Sulmona; (3) Chieti,
Lanciano, Ortona, Vasto; (4) Campobasso, Agnone, Iscrnia.
Owing to the nature of the country, communications are not
easy.  Railways are (i) the coast railway (a part of the
Bologna-Gallipoli line), with branches from Giulianova to
Teramo and from Termoli to Campobasso; (2) a line diverging
S.E. from this at Pescara and running via Sulmona (whence
there are branches via Aquila and Rieti to Terni, and via
Carpinone to (a) Isernia and Caianello, on the line from
Rome to Naples, and (b) Campobasso and Benevento), and
Avezzano (whence there is a branch to Roccasecca) to Rome.

The name Abruzzi is conjectured to be a medieval corruption of
Praetuttii.  The district was, in Lombard times, part of the
duchy of Spoleto, and, under the Normans, a part of that of
Apulia; it was first formed into a single province in 1240 by
Frederick II., who placed the Justiciarius Aprutii at Solmona
and founded the city of Aquila.  After the Hohenstauffen lost
their Italian dominions, the Abruzzi became a province of the
Angevin kingdom of Naples, to which it was of great strategic
importance.  The division into three parts was not made until
the 17th century.  The Molise, on the other hand, formed part
of the Lombard duchy of Benevento, and was placed under the
Justiciarius of Terra di Lavoro by Frederick II.: after various
changes it became part of the Capitanata, and was only formed
into an independent province in 1811.  The people are remark.
ably conservative in beliefs, superstitions and traditions.

See V. Bindi, Monumenti storici ed artistici degli Abruzzi (Naples,
1889); A. de Nino, Ulsi e costumi Abruzzesi (Florence, 1879-1883).

ABSALOM (Hebrew for ``father of [or is] peace''), in the
Bible, the third son of David, king of Israel.  He was deemed
the handsomest man in the kingdom.  His sister Tamar having
been violated by David's eldest son Amnon, Absalom, after
waiting two years, caused his servants to murder Amnon at
a feast to which he had invited all the king's sons (2 Sam.
xiii.).  After this deed he fled to Talmai, ``king'' of Geshur
(see Josh. xii. 5 or xiii. 2), his maternal grandfather, and
it was not until five years later that he was fully reinstated
in his father's favour (see JOAB.) Four years after this he
raised a revolt at Hebron, the former capital.  Absalom was
now the eldest surviving son of David, and the present position
of the narratives (xv.-xx.)--after the birth of Solomon and
before the struggle between Solomon and Adonijah---may represent
the view that the suspicion that he was not the destined
heir of his father's throne excited the impulsive youth to
rebellion.  All Israel and Judah flocked to his side, and
David, attended only by the Cherethites and Pelethites
and some recent recruits from Gath, found it expedient to
flee.  The priests remained behind in Jerusalem, and their
sons Jonathan and Ahimaaz served as his spies.  Absalom reached
the capital and took counsel with the renowned Ahithophel.
The pursuit was continued and David took refuge beyond the
Jordan.  A battle was fought in the ``wood of Ephraim'' (the
name suggests a locality west of the Jordan) and Absalom's
army was completely routed.  He himself was caught in the
boughs of an oak-tree, and as David had strictly charged his
men to deal gently with the young man, Joab was informed.
What a common soldier refused to do even for a thousand
shekels of silver, the king's general at once undertook.
Joab thrust three spears through the heart of Absalom as he
struggled in the branches, and as though this were not enough,
his ten armour-bearers came around and slew him.  The king's
overwhelming grief is well known.  A great heap of stones was
erected where he fell, whilst another monument near Jerusalem
(not the modern ``Absalom's Tomb,'' which is of later origin)
he himself had erected in his lifetime to perpetuate his name
(2 Sam. xviii. 17 seq.).  But the latter notice does not seem
to agree with xiv. 27 (cf. 1 Kings xv. 2). On the narratives
in 2 Sam. xiii.-xix., see further DAVID; SAMUEL, BOOKS OF.

ABSALON (c. 1128-1201), Danish archbishop and statesman,
was born about 1128, the son of Asser Rig of Fjenneslev,
at whose castle he and his brother Esbjorn were brought up
along with the young prince Valdemar, afterwards Valdemar
I. The Rigs were as pious and enlightened as they were
rich.  They founded the monastery of Soro as a civilizing
centre, and after giving Absalon the rudiments of a sound
education at home, which included not only book-lore but every
manly and martial exercise, they sent him to the university of
Paris.  Absalon first appears in Saxo's Chronicle as a
fellow-guest at Roskilde, at the banquet given, in 1157, by
King Sweyn to his rivals Canute and Valdemar.  Both Absalon and
Valdemar narrowly escaped assassination at the hands of their
treacherous host on this occasion, but at length escaped to
Jutland, whither Sweyn followed them, but was defeated and slain
at the battle of Grathe Heath.  The same year (1158) which saw
Valdemar ascend the Danish throne saw Absalon elected bishop of
Roskilde.  Henceforth Absalon was the chief counsellor of
Valdemar, and the promoter of that imperial policy which, for
three generations, was to give Denmark the dominion of the
Baltic.  Briefly, it was Absalon's intention to Clear the
northern sea of the Wendish pirates, who inhabited that portion
of the Baltic littoral which we now call Pomerania, and ravaged
the Danish coasts so unmercifully that at the accession of
Valdemar one-third of the realm of Denmark lay wasted and
depopulated.  The very existence of Denmark demanded the
suppression and conversion of these stiff-necked pagan
freebooters, and to this double task Absalon devoted the
best part of his life.  The first expedition against the
Wends, conducted by Absalon in person, set out in 1160,
but it was not till 1168 that the chief Wendish fortress,
at Arkona in Rugen, containing the sanctuary of their god
Svantovit, was surrendered, the Wends agreeing to accept
Danish suzerainty and the Christian religion at the same
time.  From Arkona Absalon proceeded by sea to Garz, in south
Rugen, the political capital of the Wends, and an all but
impregnable stronghold.  But the unexpected fall of Arkona
had terrified the garrison, which surrendered unconditionally
at the first appearance of the Danish ships.  Absalon, with
only Sweyn, bishop of Aarhus, and twelve ``house carls,''
thereupon disembarked, passed between a double row of Wendish
warriors, 6000 strong, along the narrow path winding among the
morasses, to the gates of the fortress, and, proceeding to the
temple of the seven-headed god Rugievit, caused the idol to
be hewn down, dragged forth and burnt.  The whole population
of Garz was then baptized, and Absalon laid the foundations
of twelve churches in the isle of Rugen.  The destruction of
this chief sally-port of the Wendish pirates enabled Absalon
considerably to reduce the Danish fleet.  But he continued
to keep a watchful eye over the Baltic, and in 1170 destroyed
another pirate stronghold, farther eastward, at Dievenow
on the isle of Wollin.  Absalon's last military exploit was
the annihilation, off Strela (Stralsund), on Whit-Sunday
1184, of a Pomeranian fleet which had attacked Denmark's
vassal, Jaromir of Rugen.  He was now but fifty-seven, but
his strenuous life had aged him, and he was content to resign
the command of fleets and armies to younger men, like Duke
Valdemar, afterwards Valdemar II., and to confine himself
to the administration of the empire which his genius had
created.  In this sphere Absalon proved himself equally
great.  The aim of his policy was to free Denmark from the German
yoke.  It was contrary to his advice and warnings that Valdemar
I. rendered fealty to the emperor Frederick Barbarossa at
Dole in 1162; and when, on the accession of Canute V. in
1182, an imperial ambassador arrived at Roskilde to receive
the homage of the new king, Absalon resolutely withstood
him. ``Return to the emperor,'' cried he, ``and tell him that
the king of Denmark will in no wise show him obedience or
do him homage.'' As the archpastor of Denmark Absalon also
rendered his country inestimable services, building churches
and monasteries, introducing the religious orders, founding
schools and doing his utmost to promote civilization and
enlightenment.  It was he who held the first Danish Synod at
Lund in 1167.  In 1178 he became archbishop of Lund, but very
unwillingly, only the threat of excommunication from the
holy see finally inducing him to accept the pallium.  Absalon
died on the 21st of March 1201, at the family monastery of
Soro, which he himself had richly embellished and endowed.

Absalon remains one of the most striking and picturesque
figures of the Middle Ages, and was equally great as
churchman, statesman and warrior.  That he enjoyed warfare
there can be no doubt; and his splendid physique and early
training had well fitted him for martial exercises.  He
was the best rider in the army and the best swimmer in the
fleet.  Yet he was not like the ordinary fighting bishops
of the Middle Ages, whose sole concession to their sacred
calling was to avoid the ``shedding of blood'' by using a mace
in battle instead of a sword.  Absalon never neglected his
ecclesiastical duties, and even his wars were of the nature of
Crusades.  Moreover, all his martial energy notwithstanding,
his personality must have been singularly winning; for it is
said of him that he left behind not a single enemy, all his
opponents having long since been converted by him into friends.

See Saxo, Gesta Danorum, ed.  Holder (Strassburg, 1886), books
xvi.; Steinstrup, Danmark's Riges Historic.  Oldtiden og den (eldre
Middelalder, pp. 570-735 (Copenhagen, 1897-1905). (R. N. B.)

ABSCESS (from Lat. abscedere, to separate), in pathology,
a collection of pus among the tissues of the body, the result
of bacterial inflammation.  Without the presence of septic
organisms abscess does not occur.  At any rate, every acute
abscess contains septic germs, and these may have reached the
inflamed area by direct infection, or may have been carried
thither by the blood-stream.  Previous to the formation of
abscess something has occurred to lower the vitality of the
affected tissue--- some gross injury, perchance, or it may be
that the power of resistance against bacillary invasion was
lowered by reason of constitutional weakness.  As the result,
then, of lowered vitality, a certain area becomes congested and
effusion takes place into the tissues.  This effusion coagulates
and a hard, brawny mass is formed which softens towards the
centre.  If nothing is done the softened area increases in
size, the skin over it becomes thinned, loses its vitality
(mortifies) and a small ``slough'' is formed.  When the slough
gives way the pus escapes and, tension being relieved, pain
ceases.  A local necrosis or death of tissue takes place at
that part of the inflammatory swelling farthest from the healthy
circulation.  When the attack of septic inflammation is very
acute, death of the tissue occurs en masse, as in the
core of a boil or carbuncle.  Sometimes, however, no such
mass of dead tissue is to be observed, and all that escapes
when the skin is lanced or gives way is the creamy pus.  In
the latter case the tissue has broken down in a molecular
form.  After the escape of the core or slough along with a
certain amount of pus, a space, the abscess-cavily', is left,
the walls of which are lined with new vascular tissue which
has itself escaped destruction.  This lowly organized material
is called granulation tissue, and exactly resembles the
growth which covers the floor of an ulcer.  These granulations
eventually fill the contracting cavity and obliterate it by
forming interstitial scar-tissue.  This is called healing
by second intention. Pus may accumulate in a normal cavity,
such as a joint or bursa, or in the cranial, thoracic or
abdominal cavity.  In all these situations, if the diagnosis
is clear, the principle of treatment is evacuation and
drainage.  When evacuating an abscess it is often advisable
to scrape away the lining of unhealthy granulations and
to wash out the cavity with an antiseptic lotion.  If the
after-drainage of the cavity is thorough the formation of
pus ceases and the watery discharge from the abscess wall
subsides.  As the cavity contracts the discharge becomes less,
until at last the drainage tube can be removed and the external
wound allowed to heal.  The large collections of pus which
form in connexion with disease of the spinal column in the
cervical, dorsal and lumbar regions are now treated by free
evacuation of the tuberculous pus, with careful antiseptic
measures.  The opening should be in as dependent a position as
possible in order that the drainage may be thorough.  If tension
recurs after opening has been made, as by the blocking of the
tube, or by its imperfect position, or by its being too short,
there is likely to be a fresh formation of pus, and without
delay the whole procedure must be gone through again. (E. O.*)

ABSCISSA (from the Lat. abscissus, cut off), in the
Cartesian system of co-ordinates, the distance of a point
from the axis of y measured parallel to the horizontal
axis (axis of x.) Thus PS (or OR) is the abscissa of
P. The word appears for the first time in a Latin work
written by Stefano degli Angeli (1623-1697), a professor
of mathematics in Rome. (See GEOMETRY, sec.  Analytical.)

ABSCISSION (from Lat. abscinidere), a tearing away, or
cutting off; a term used sometimes in prosody for the elision of
a vowel before another, and in surgery especially for abscission
of the cornea, or the removal of that portion of the eyeball
situated in front of the attachments of the recti muscles; in
botany, the separation of spores by elimination of the connexion.

ABSCOND (Lat. abscondcre, to hide, put away), to depart in
a secret manner; in law, to remove from the jurisdiction of the
courts or so to conceal oneself as to avoid their jurisdiction.
A person may ``abscond'' either for the purpose of avoiding
arrest for a crime (see ARREST), or for a fraudulent purpose,
such as the defrauding of his creditors (see BANKRUPTCY.)

ABSENCE (Lat. absentia), the fact of being ``away,''
either in body or mind; ``absence of mind'' being a
condition in which the mind is withdrawn from what is
passing.  The special occasion roll-call at Eton College
is called ``Absence,'' which the boys attend in their tall
hats.  A soldier must get permission or ``leave of absence'
before he can be away from his regiment.  Seven years'
absence with no sign of life either by letter or message
is held presumptive evidence of death in the law courts.

ABSENTEEISM, a term used primarily of landed proprietors who
absent themselves from their estates, and live and spend their
incomes elsewhere; in its more extended meaning it includes
all those (in addition to landlords) who live out of a country
or locality but derive their income from some source within
it.  Absenteeism is a question which has been much debated,
and from both the economic and moral point of view there is
little doubt that it has a prejudicial effect.  To it has been
attributed in a great measure the unprosperous condition of the
rural districts of France before the Revolution, when it was
unusual for the great nobles to live on their estates unless
compelled to do so by a sentence involving their ``exile'' from
Paris.  It has also been an especial evil in Ireland, and
many attempts were made to combat it.  As early as 1727 a
tax of four shillings in the pound was imposed on all persons
holding offices and employments in Ireland and residing in
England.  This tax was discontinued in 1753, but was re-imposed in
1769.  In 1774 the tax was reduced to two shillings in the
pound, but was dropped after some years.  It was revived by the
Independent Parliament in 1782 and for some ten years brought in
a substantial amount to the revenue, yielding in 1790 as much as
63,089 pounds.

AUTHORITIES.--For a discussion of absenteeism from the economic
point of view see N. W. Senior, Lectures on the Rate of Wages,
Political Economy; J. S. Mill, Political Economy; J. R.
Mcculloch, Treatises and Essays on Money, &c., article
``Absenteeism''; A. T. Hadley, Economics; on absenteeism in
Ireland see A. Young, Tour in Ireland (1780); T. Prior, List
of.  Absentees (1729); E. Wakefield, Account of Iteland (1812);
W. E. H. Lecky, Ireland in the 18th Century (1892): A. E.
Murray, History of the Commercial and Financial Relations
between England and Helanid (1903); Parliamentary Papers,
Ireland, 1830, vii., ditto, 1845, xix.-xxii.; in France, A.
de Monchretien, Traicte de l'oekonomie politique (1615);
A. de Tocqueville, L'Ancien Regime (1857); H. Taine, Les
Origines de la France contemporaine, l'ancien Regime (1876).

ABSINTHE a liqueur or aromatized spirit, the characteristic
flavouring matter of which is derived from various species of
wormwood (Artemisia absinthium.) Among the other substances
generally employed in its manufacture are angelica root,
sweet flag, dittany leaves, star-anise fruit, fennel and
hyssop.  A colourless ``alcoholate'' (see LIQUEURS) is
first prepared, and to this the well-known green colour of
the beverage is imparted by maceration with green leaves of
wormwood, hyssop and mint.  Inferior varieties are made by
means of essences, the distillation process being omitted.
There are two varieties of absinthe, the French and the Swiss,
the latter of which is of a higher alcoholic strength than the
former.  The best absinthe contains 70 to 80% of alcohol.  It is
said to improve very materially by storage.  There is a popular
belief to the effect that absinthe is frequently adulterated
with copper, indigo or other dye-stuffs (to impart the green
colour), but, in fact, this is now very rarely the case.  There
is some reason to believe that excessive absinthe-drinking
leads to effects which are specifically worse than those
associated with over-indulgence in other forms of alcohol.

ABSOLUTE (Lat. absolvere, to loose, set free), a term
having the general signification of independent, self-existent,
unconditioned.  Thus we speak of ``absolute'' as opposed to
``limited'' or ``constitutional'' monarchy, or, in common
parlance, of an ``absolute failure,'' i.e. unrelieved by
any satisfactory circumstances.  In philosophy the word has
several technical uses. (1) In Logic, it has been applied
to non-connotative terms which do not imply attributes
(see CONNOTATION), but more commonly, in opposition to
Relative, to terms which do not imply the existence of some
other (correlative) term; e.g. ``father'' implies ``son,''
``tutor'' ``pupil,'' and therefore each of these terms is
relative.  In fact, however, the distinction is formal, and,
though convenient in the terminology of elementary logic,
cannot be strictly maintained.  The term ``man,'' for example,
which, as compared with ``father,'' ``son,'' ``tutor,'' seems
to be absolute, is obviously relative in other connexions; in
various contexts it implies its various possible opposites,
e.g. ``woman,'' ``boy,'' ``master'', ``brute.'' In other
words, every term which is susceptible of definition is ipso
facto relative, for definition is precisely the segregation
of the thing defined from all other things which it is not,
i.e. implies a relation.  Every term which has a meaning
is, therefore, relative, if only to its contradictory.

(2) The term is used in the phrase ``absolute knowledge'' to
imply knowledge per se. It has been held, however, that,
since all knowledge implies a knowing subject and a known
object, absolute knowledge is a contradiction in terms (see
RELATIVITY.) So also Herbert Spencer spoke of ``absolute
ethics,'' as opposed to systems of conduct based on particular
local or temporary laws and conventions (see ETHICS.)

(3) By far the most important use of the word is in the phrase
``the Absolute'' (see METAPHYSICS.) It is sufficient here
to indicate the problems involved in their most elementary
form.  The process of knowledge in the sphere of intellect
as in that of natural science is one of generalization,
i.e. the co-ordination of particular facts under general
statements, or in other words, the explanation of one fact by
another, and that other by a third, and so on.  In this way
the particular facts or existences are left behind in the
search for higher, more inclusive conceptions; as twigs are
traced to one branch, and branches to one trunk, so, it is
held, all the plurality of sense-given data is absorbed in
a unity which is all-inclusive and self-existent, and has no
``beyond.'' By a metaphor this process has been described as
the odos ano (as of tracing a river to its source).  Other
phrases from different points of view have been used to describe
the idea, e.g. First Cause, Vital Principle (in connexion
with the origin of life), God (as the author and sum of all
being), Unity, Truth (i.e. the sum and culmination of all
knowledge), Causa Causans, &c. The idea in different senses
appears both in idealistic and realistic systems of thought.

The theories of the Absolute may be summarized briefly
as follows. (1) The Absolute does not exist, and is not
even in any real sense thinkable.  This view is held by
the empiricists, who hold that nothing is knowable save
phenomena.  The Absolute could not be conceived, for all
knowledge is susceptible of definition and, therefore,
relative.  The Absolute includes the idea of necessity, which
the mind cannot cognize. (2) The Absolute exists for thought
only.  In this theory the absolute is the unknown x which
the human mind is logically compelled to postulate a priori
as the only coherent explanation and justification of its
thought. (3) The Absolute exists but is unthinkable, because
it is an aid to thought which comes into operation, as it
were, as a final explanation beyond which thought cannot
go.  Its existence is shown by the fact that without it all
demonstration would be a mere circulus in probando or verbal
exercise, because the existence of separate things implies some
one thing which includes and explains them. (4) The Absolute
both exists and is conceivable.  It is argued that we do in
fact conceive it in as much as we do conceive Unity, Being,
Truth.  The conception is so clear that its inexplicability
(admitted) is of no account.  Further, since the unity of
our thought implies the absolute, and since the existence
of things is known only to thought, it appears absurd that
the absolute itself should be regarded as non-existent.
The Absolute is substance in itself, the ultimate basis and
matter of existence.  All things are merely manifestations of
it, exist in virtue of it, but are not identical with it.
(5) Metaphysical idealists pursue this line of argument in a
different way.  For them nothing exists save thought; the only
existence 1hat can be predicated of any thing and, therefore,
of the Absolute, is that it is thought.  Thought creates
God, things, the Absolute. (6) Finally, it has been held that
we can conceive the Absolute, though our conception is only
partial, just as our concepuon of all things is limited by
the imperfect powers of human intellect.  Thus the Absolute
exists for us only in our thought of it (4 above).  But
thought itself comes from the Absolute which, being itself
the pure thought of thoughts, separates from itself individual
minds.  It is, therefore, perfectly natural that human thought,
being essentially homogeneous with the Absolute, should be
able by.the consideration of the universe to arrive at some
imperfect conception of the source from which all is derived.

The whole controversy is obscured by inevitable difficulties in
terminology.  The fundamental problem is whether a thing which
is by hypothesis infinite can in any sense be defined, and if
it is not defined, whether it can be said to be cognized or
thought.  It would appear to be almost an axiom that anything
which by hypothesis transcends the intellect (i.e. by including
subject and object, knowing and known) is ipso facto beyond the
limits of the knower.  Only an Absolute can cognize an absolute.

ABSOLUTION (Lat. absolutio from absolvo, loosen, acquit),
a term used in civil and ecclesiastical law, denoting the
act of setting free or acquitting.  In a criminal process it
signifies the acquittal of an accused person on the ground
that the evidence has either disproved or failed to prove the
charge brought against him.  In this sense it is now little
used, except in Scottish law in the forms assoilzie and
absolvitor. The ecclesiastical use of the word is essentially
different from the civil.  It refers not to an accusation,
but to sin actually committed (after baptism); and it denotes
the setting of the sinner free from the guilt of the sin, or
from its ecclesiastical penalty (excommunication), or from
both.  The authority of the church or minister to pronounce
absolution is based on John xx. 23; Matt. xviii. 18; James v.
16, &c. In primitive times, when confession of sins was made
before the congregation, the absolution was deferred till
the penance was completed; and there is no record of the use
of any special formula.  Men were also encouraged, e.g. by
Chrysostom, to confess their secret sins secretly to God. In
course of time changes grew up. (1) From the 3rd century onwards,
secret (auricular) confession before a bishop or priest was
practised.  For various reasons it became more and more common,
until the fourth Lateran council (1215) ordered all Christians
of the Roman obedience to make a confession once a year at
least.  In the Greek church also private confession has become
obligatory. (2) In primitive times the penitent was reconciled
by imposition of hands by the bishop with or without the clergy:
gradually the office was left to be discharged by priests,
and the outward action more and more disused. (3) It became
the custom to give the absolution to penitents immediately
after their confession and before the penance was performed.
(4) Until the Middle Ages the form of absolution after private
confession was of the nature of a prayer, such as ``May the
Lord absolve thee''; and this is still the practice of the Greek
church.  But about the 13th century the Roman formula was
altered, and the council of Trent (1551) declared that the
``form'' and power of the sacrament of penance lay in the
words Ego te absolvo, &c., and that the accompanying prayers
are not essential to it.  Of the three forms of absolution
in the Anglican Prayer Book, that in the Visitation of the
Sick (disused in the church of Ireland by decision of the
Synods of 1871 and 1877) runs ``I absolve thee,'' tracing
the authority so to act through the church up to Christ:
the form in the Communion Service is precative, while that
in Morning and Evening Prayer is indicative indeed, but so
general as not to imply anything like a judicial decree of
absolution.  In the Lutheran church also the practice of
private confession survived the Reformation, together with
both the exhibitive (I forgive, &c.) and declaratory (I declare
and pronounce) forms of absolution.  In granting absolution,
even after general confession, it is in some places still
the custom for the minister, where the numbers permit of
it, to lay his hands on the head of each penitent. (W. O. B.)

ABSOLUTISM, in aesthetics, a term applied to the theory
that beauty is an objective attribute of things, not merely
a subjective feeling of pleasure in him who perceives.  It
follows that there is an absolute standard of the beautiful by
which all objects can be judged.  The fact that, in practice,
the judgments even of connoisseurs are perpetually at variance,
and that the so-called criteria of one place or period are
more or less opposed to those of all others, is explained away
by the hypothesis that individuals are differently gifted in
respect of the capacity to appreciate. (See AESTHETICS.)

In political philosophy absolutism, as opposed to constitutional
government, is the despotic rule of a sovereign unrestrained by
laws and based directly upon force.  In the strict sense such
governments are rare. but it is customary to apply the term to a
state at a relatively backward stage of constitutional development.

ABSORPTION OF LIGHT. The term ``absorption'' (from Lat.
absorbere) means literally ``sucking up'' or ``swallowing,'' and
thus a total incorporation in something, literally or figuratively;
it is technically used in animal physiology for the function of
certain vessels which suck up fluids; and in light and optics
absorption spectrum and absorption band are terms used in
the discussion of the transformation of rays in various media.

If a luminous body is surrounded by empty space, the light
which it emits suffers no loss of energy as it travels
outwards.  The intensity of the light diminishes merely
because the total energy, though unaltered, is distributed
over a wider and wider surface as the rays diverge from the
source.  To prove this, it will be sufficient to mention that
an exceedingly small deficiency in the transparency of the free
aether would be sufficient to prevent the light of the fixed
stars from reaching the earth, since their distances are so
immense.  But when light is transmitted through a material
medium, it always suffers some loss, the light energy being
absorbed by the medium, that is, converted partially or
wholly into other forms of energy such as heat, a portion of
which transformed energy may be re-emitted as radiant energy
of a lower frequency.  Even the most transparent bodies known
absorb an appreciable portion of the light transmitted through
them.  Thus the atmosphere absorbs a part of the sun's
rays, and the greater the distance which the rays have to
traverse the greater is the proportion which is absorbed,
so that on this account the sun appears less bright towards
sunset.  On the other hand, light can penetrate some distance
into all substances, even the most opaque, the absorption
being, however, extremely rapid in the latter case.

The nature of the surface of a body has considerable
influence on its power of absorbing light.  Platinum
black, for instance, in which the metal is in a state of
fine division, absorbs nearly all the light incident on
it, while polished platinum reflects the greater part.  In
the former case the light penetrating between the particles
is unable to escape by reflexion, and is finally absorbed.

The question of absorption may be considered from either of
two points of view.  We may treat it as a superficial effect,
especially in the case of bodies which are opaque enough or
thick enough to prevent all transmission of light, and we
may investigate how much is reflected at the surface and how
much is absorbed; or, on the other hand, we may confine our
attention to the light which enters the body and inquire into
the relation between the decay of intensity and the depth of
penetration.  We shall take these two cases separately.

Absorptive Power.--When none of the radiations which fall
on a body penetrates through its substance, then the ratio
of the amount of radiation of a given wave-length which
is absorbed to the total amount received is called the
``absorptive power'' of the body for that wave-length.
Thus if the body absorbed half the incident radiation its
absorptive power would be  1/2, and if it absorbed all the
incident radiation its absorptive power would be 1. A body
which absorbs all radiations of all wavelengths would be
called a ``perfectly black body.'' No such body actually
exists, but such substances as lamp-black and platinum-black
approximately fulfil the condition.  The fraction of the
incident radiation which is not absorbed by a body gives a
measure of its reflecting power, with which we are not here
concerned.  Most bodies exhibit a selective action on light,
that is to say, they readily absorb light of particular
wave-lengths, light of other wave-lengths not being largely
absorbed.  All bodies when heated emit the same kind of
radiations which they absorb---an important principle known
as the principle of the equality of radiating and absorbing
powers.  Thus black substances such as charcoal are very
luminous when heated.  A tile of white porcelain with a black
pattern on it mill, if heated red-hot, show the pattern bright
on a darker ground.  On the other hand, those substances
which either are good reflectors or good transmitters, are
not so luminous at the same temperature; for instance, melted
silver, which reflects well, is not so luminous as carbon
at the same temperature, and common salt, which is very
transparent for most kinds of radiation, when poured in a
fused condition out of a bright red-hot crucible, looks almost
like water, showing only a faint red glow for a moment or
two.  But all such bodies appear to lose their distinctive
properties when heated in a vessel which nearly encloses them,
for in that case those radiations which they do not emit are
either transmitted through them from the walls of the vessel
behind, or else reflected from their surface.  This fact may
be expressed by saying that the radiation within a heated
enclosure is the same as that of a perfectly black body.

Coefficient of Absorption, and Law of Absorption.---The law
which governs the rate of decay of light intensity in passing
through any medium may be readily obtained.  If I0 represents
the intensity of the light which enters the surface, I1 the
intensity after passing through 1 centimetre, I2 the intensity
after passing through 2 centimetres, and so on; then we should
expect that whatever fraction of I0 is absorbed in the first
centimetre, the same fraction of I1 will be absorbed in the
second.  That is, if an amount jI0 is absorbed in the first
centimetre, JI1 is absorbed in the second, and so on.  We have then
               I1 = I0(1--j)
               I2 = I1(1--j) = I0(1--j)2
               I3 = I2(1--j) = I0(1--j)3
and so on, so that if I is the intensity after
passing through a thickness t in centimetres
                   I = I0(1--j)t                    (1).
We might call j, which is the proportion absorbed in one
centimetre, the ``coefficient of absorption'' of the medium.
 1/2t would, however, not then apply to the case of a body
for which the whole light is absorbed in less than one
centimetre.  It is better then to define the coefficient of
absorption as a quantity k such that k/n of the light is
absorbed in 1/nth part of a centimetre, where n may be
taken to be a very large number.  The formula (1) then becomes
                    I=I0e-kt                    (2)
where e is the base of Napierian logarithms, and
k is a constant which is practically the same
as for bodies which do not absorb very rapidly.

There is another coefficient of absorption (k) which occurs
in Helmholtz's theory of dispersion (see DISPERSION.)
It is closely related to the coefficient k which we have
just defined, the equation connecting the two being k=4
pk/l, l being the wavelength of the incident light.

The law of absorption expressed by the formula (2) has been
verified by experiments for various solids, liquids and
gases.  The method consists in comparing the intensity after
transmission through a layer of known thickness of the absorbent
with the intensity of light from the same source which has
not passed through the medium, k being thus obtained for
various thicknesses and found to be constant.  In the case of
solutions, if the absorption of the solvent is negligible, the
eflect of increasing the concentration of the absorbing solute
is the same as that of increasing the thickness in the same
ratio.  In a similar way the absorption of light in the
coloured gas chlorine is found to be unaltered if the thickness
is reduced by compression, because the density is increased
in the same ratio that the thickness is reduced.  This is
not strictly the case, however, for such gases and vapours
as exhibit well-defined bands of absorption in the spectrum,
as these bands are altered in character by compression.

If white light is allowed to fall on some coloured
solutions, the transmitted light is of one colour when the
thickness of the solution is small, and of quite another
colour if the thickness is great.  This curious phenomenon
is known as dichromatism (from di-, two, and chroma,
colour).  Thus, when a strong light is viewed through a
solution of chlorophyll, the light seen is a brilliant green
if the thickness is small, but a deep blood-red for thicker
layers.  This effect can be explained as follows.  The solution
is moderately transparent for a large number of rays in the
neighborhoodood of the green part of the spectrum; it is,
on the whole, much more opaque for red rays, but is readily
penetrated by certain red rays belonging to a narrow region
of the spectrum.  The small amount of red transmitted is at
first quite overpowered by the green, but having a smaller
coefficient of absorption, it becomes finally predominant.
The effect is complicated, in the case of chlorophyll and
many other bodies, by selective reflexion and fluorescence.

For the molecular theory of absorption, see SPECTROSCOPY.
REFERENCES.---A.  Schuster's Theory of Optics (1904); P. K. L.
Drude's Theory of Optics (Eng. trans., 1902); F. H. Wullner's
Lehrbuch der Experimentalphysik, Bd. iv. (1899). (J. R. C.)

ABSTEMII (a Latin word. from abs. away from. temetum.
intoxicating liquor, from which is derived the English
``abstemious'' or temperate), a name formerly given to such
persons as could not partake of the cup of the Eucharist
on account of their natural aversion to wine.  Calvinists
allowed these to communicate in the species of bread only,
touching the cup with their lip; a course which was deemed a
profanation by the Lutherans.  Among several Protestant sects,
both in Great Britain and America, abstemii on a somewhat
different principle have appeared in modern times.  These are
total abstainers, who maintain that the use of stimulants is
essentially sinful, and allege that the wine used by Christ and
his disciples at the supper was unfermented.  They accordingly
communicate in the unfermented ``juice of the grape.''

ABSTINENCE (from Lat. abstinere, to abstain), the fact
or habit of refraining from anything, but usually from the
indulgence of the appetite and especially from strong drink.
``Total abstinence'' and ``total abstainer'' are associated
with taking the pledge to abstain from alcoholic liquor (see
TEMPERANCE.) In the discipline of the Christian Church
abstinence is the term for a less severe form of Fasting (q.v..)

ABSTRACTION (Lat. abs and trahere), the process or
result of drawing away; that which is drawn away, separated or
derived.  Thus the noun is used for a summary, compendium
or epitome of a larger work, the gist of which is given in
a concentrated form.  Similarly an absent-minded man is said
to be ``abstracted,'' as paying no attention to the matter in
hand.  In philosophy the word has several closely related
technical senses. (1) In formal logic it is applied to those
terms which denote qualities, attributes, circumstances,
as opposed to concrete terms, the names of things; thus
``friend'' is concrete, ``friendship'' abstract.  The term
which expresses the connotation of a word is therefore an
abstract term, though it is probably not itself connotative;
adjectives are concrete, not abstract, e.g. ``equal'' is
concrete, ``equality'' abstract (cf. Aristotle's aphaeresis
and prosthesis.) (2) The process of abstraction takes
an important place both in psychological and metaphysical
speculation.  The psychologist finds among the earliest
of his problems the question as to the process from the
perception of things seen and heard to mental conceptions,
which are ultimately distinct from immediate perception
(see PSYCHOLOGY.) When the mind, beginning with isolated
individuals, groups them together in virtue of perceived
resemblances and arrives at a unity in plurality, the process
by which attention is diverted from individuals and concentrated
on a single inclusive concept (i.e. classification) is one of
abstraction.  All orderly thought and all increase of knowledge
depend partly on establishing a clear and accurate connexion
between particular things and general ideas, rules and
principles.  The nature of the resultant concepts belongs
to the great controversy between Nominalism, Realism and
Conceptualism.  Metaphysics, again, is concerned with the
ultimate problems of matter and spirit; it endeavours to go
behind the phenomena of sense and focus its attention on the
fundamental truths which are the only logical bases of natural
science.  This, again, is a process of abstraction, the
attainment of abstract ideas which, apart from the concrete
individuals, are conceived as having a substantive existence.
The final step in the process is the conception of the Absolute
(q.v.), which is abstract in the most complete sense.

Abstraction differs from Analysis, inasmuch as its object is to
select a particular quality for consideration in itself as it is
found in all the ob)ects to which it belongs, whereas analysis
considers all the qualities which belong to a single object.

ABSTRACT OF TITLE, in English law, an epitome of the
various instruments and events under and in consequence
of which the vendor of an estate derives his title
thereto.  Such an abstract is, upon the sale or mortgage
of an estate, prepared by some competent person for the
purchaser or mortgagee, and verified by his solicitor by a
comparison with the original deeds. (See CONVEYANCING.)

ABT, FRANZ (1819-1885), German composer, was born on the
22nd of December 1819 at Eilenburg, Saxony, and died at
Wiesbaden on the 31st of March 1885.  The best of his popular
songs have become part of the recognized art-folk-music of
Germany; his vocal works, solos, part-songs, &c., enjoyed
an extraordinary vogue all over Europe in the middle of the
19th century, but in spite of their facile tunefulness have
few qualities of lasting beauty.  Abt was kapellmeister
at Bernburg in 1841, at Zurich in the same year and at
Brunswick from 1852 to 1882, when he retired to Wiesbaden.

ABU, a mountain of Central India, situated in 24 deg.  36' N.
lat. and 72 deg.  43' E. long., within the Rajputana state of
Sirohi.  It is an isolated spur of the Aravalli range, being
completely detached from that chain by a narrow valley 7
miles across, in which flows the western Banas.  It rises
from the surrounding plains of Marwar like a precipitous
granite island, its various peaks ranging from 4000 to 5653
feet.  The elevations and platforms of the mountain are
covered with elaborately sculptured shrines, temples and
tombs.  On the top of the hill is a small round platform
containing a cavern, with a block of granite, bearing the
impression of the feet of Data-Bhrigu, an incarnation of
Vishnu.  This is the chief place of pilgrimage for the
Jains, Shrawaks and Banians.  The two principal temples are
situated at Deulwara, about the middle of the mountain, and
five miles south-west of Guru Sikra, the highest summit.
They are built of white marble, and are pre-eminent alike for
their beauty and as typical specimens of Jain architecture in
India.  The more modern of the two was built by two brothers,
rich merchants, between the years 1197 and 1247, and for
delicacy of carving and minute beauty of detail stands
almost unrivalled, even in this land of patient and lavish
labour.  The other was built by another merchant prince, Vimala
Shah, apparently about A.D. 1032, and, although simpler and
bolder in style, is as elaborate as good taste would allow
in a purely architectural object.  It is one of the oldest as
well as one of the most complete examples of Jain architecture
known.  The principal object within the temple is a cell
lighted only from the door, containing a cross-legged seated
figure of the god Parswanath.  The portico is composed of
forty-eight pillars, the whole enclosed in an oblong courtyard
about 140 feet by 90 feet, surrounded by a double colonnade
of smaller pillars, forming porticos to a range of fifty-five
cells, which enclose it on all sides, exactly as they do in
a Buddhist monastery (vihara.) In this temple, however,
each cell, instead of being the residence of R monk, is
occupied by an image of Parswanath, and over the door, or on
the jambs of each, are sculptured scenes from the life. of the
deity.  The whole interior is magnificently ornamented.

Abu is now the summer residence of the governor-general's agent
for Rajputana, and a place of resort for Europeans in the hot
weather.  It is 16 miles from the Abu road station of the Rajputana
railway.  The annual mean temperature is about 70 deg. , rising to
90 deg.  in April; but the heat is never oppressive.  The annual
rainfall is about 68 inches.  The hills are laid out with
driving-roads and bridle-paths, and there is a beautiful little
lake.  The chief buildings are a church, club, hospital and a
Lawrence asylum school for the children of British soldiers.

ABU-BEKR (573-634), the name (``Father of the virgin'') of
the first of the Mahommedan caliphs (see CALIPH.) He was
originally called Abd-el-Ka'ba (``servant of the temple''),
and received the name by which he is known historically in
consequence of the marriage of his virgin daughter Ayesha to
Mahomet.  He was born at Mecca in the year A.D. 573, a
Koreishite of the tribe of Beni-Taim.  Possessed of immense
wealth, which he had himself acquired in commerce, and
held in high esteem as a judge, an interpreter of dreams
and a depositary of the traditions of his race, his early
accession to Islamism was a fact of great importance.  On
his conversion he assumed the name of Abd-Alla (servant of
God).  His own belief in Mahomet and his doctrines was
so thorough as to procure for him the title El Siddik
(the faithful), and his success in gaining converts was
correspondingly great.  In his personal relationship to the
prophet he showed the deepest veneration and most unswerving
devotion.  When Mahomet fled from Mecca, Abu-Bekr was
his sole companion, and shared both his hardships and his
triumphs, remaining constantly with him until the day of his
death.  During his last illness the prophet indicated Abu-Bekr
as his successor by desiring him to offer up prayer for the
people.  The choice was ratified by the chiefs of the army,
and ultimately confirmed, though Ali, Mahomet's son-in-law,
disputed it, asserting his own title to the dignity.  After
a time Ali submitted, but the difference of opinion as to his
claims gave rise to the controversy which still divides the
followers of the prophet into the rival factions of Sunnites and
Shiites.  Abu-Bekr had scarcely assumed his new position
(632), under the title Califet-Resul-Allah (successor of the
prophet of God), when he was called to suppress the revolt
of the tribes Hejaz and Nejd, of which the former rejected
Islamism and the latter refused to pay tribute.  He encountered
formidable opposition from different quarters, but in every
case he was successful, the severest struggle being that with
the impostor Mosailima, who was finally defeated by Khalid
at the battle of Akraba.  Abu-Bekr's zeal for the spread of
the new faith was as conspicuous as that of its founder had
been.  When the internal disorders had been repressed and
Arabia completely subdued, he directed his generals to foreign
conquest.  The Irak of Persia was overcome by Khalid in a single
campaign, and there was also a successful expedition into
Syria.  After the hard-won victory over Mosailima, Omar, fearing
that the sayings of the prophet would be entirely forgotten
when those who had listened to them had all been removed by
death, induced Abu-Bekr to see to their preservation in a written
form.  The record, when completed, was deposited with Hafsa,
daughter of Omar, and one of the wives of Mahomet.  It was held
in great reverence by all Moslems, though it did not possess
canonical authority, and furnished most of the materials out
of which the Koran, as it now exists, was prepared.  When
the authoritative version was completed all copies of Hafsa's
record were destroyed, in order to prevent possible disputes and
divisions.  Abu-Bekr died on the 23rd of August 634. Shortly
before his death, which one tradition ascribes to poison,
another to natural causes, he indicated Omar as his successor,
after the manner Mahomet had observed in his own case.

ABU HAMED, a town of the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan on the right
bank of the Nile, 345 m. by rail N. of Khartum.  It stands
a4 the centre of the great S-shaped bend of the Nile, and
from it the railway to Wadi Halfa strikes straight across
the Nubian desert, a little west of the old caravan route to
Korosko.  A branch railway, 138 m. long, from Abu Hamed
goes down the right bank of the Nile to Kareima in the
Dongola mudiria.  The town is named after a celebrated
sheikh buried here, by whose tomb travellers crossing the
desert used formerly to deposit all superfluous goods,
the sanctity of the saint's tomb ensuring their safety.

ABU HANIFA AN-NU`MAN IBN THABIT, Mahommedan canon
lawyer, was born at Kufa in A.H. 80 (A.D. 699) of non-Arab
and probably Persian parentage.  Few events of his life are
known to us with any certainty.  He was a silk-dealer and a
man of considerable means, so that he was able to give his
time to legal studies.  He lectured at Kufa upon canon law
(fiqh) and was a consulting lawyer (mufti), but refused
steadily to take any public post.  When al-Mansur, however,
was building Bagdad (145--140) Abu Hanifa was one of the
four overseers whom he appointed over the craftsmen (G. Le
Strange, Baghdad during the Abbasid Caliphate, p. 17). In
A.H. 150 (A.D. 767) he died there under circumstances which
are very differently reported.  A persistent but apparently
later tradition asserts that he died in prison after severe
beating, because he refused to obey al-Mansur's command to act
as a judge (cadi, qadi.) This was to avoid a responsibility
for which he felt unfit ---a frequent attitude of more pious
Moslems.  Others say that al-Mahdi, son of al-Mansur, actually
constrained him to be a judge and that he died a few days
after.  It seems certain that he did suffer imprisonment and
beating for this reason, at the hands of an earlier governor
of Kufa under the Omayyads (Ibn Qutaiba, Ma`arif, p.
248).  Also that al-Mansur desired to make him judge, but
compromised upon his inspectorship of buildings (so in Tabari).
A late story is that the judgeship was only a pretext with
al-Mansur, who considered him a partisan of the `Alids and
a helper with his wealth of Ibrahim ibn'Abd Allah in his
insurrection at Kufa in 145 (Weil, Geschichte, ii. 53 ff.).

For many personal anecdotes see de Slane's transl. of
Ibn Khalhkan iii. 555 ff., iv. 272 ff.  For his place
as a speculative jurist in the history of canon law, see
MAHOMMEDAN LAW.  He was buried in eastern Bagdad, where
his tomb still exists, one of the few surviving sites from
the time of ahmansur, the founder. (Le Strange 191 ff.)

See C. Brockelmann, Geschichte, i. 169 ff.; Nawawi's Biogr.
Dict. pp. 698-770: Ibn Hajar al-Haitami's Biography, publ.  Cairo,
A.H. 1304; legal bibliography under MAHOMMEDAN LAW) (D. B. MA.)

ABU KLEA, a halting-place for caravans in the Bayuda
Desert, Anglo-Egyptian Sudan.  It is on the road from Merawi
to Metemma and 20 m.  N. of the Nile at the last-mentioned
place.  Near this spot, on the 17th of January 1885, a British
force marching to the relief of General Gordon at Khartum
was attacked by the Mahdists, who were repulsed.  On the
19th, when the British force was nearer Metemma, the Mahdists
renewed the attack, again unsuccessfully.  Sir Herbert
Stewart, the commander of the British force, was mortally
wounded on the 19th, and among the killed on the 17th was
Col. F. G. Burnaby (see EGYPT, Military Operations.)

ABU-L-`ALA UL-MA.ARRI [Abu-l-`Alaa Ahmad ibn `Abdallah
ibn Sulaiman] (973-1057), Arabian poet and letter-writer,
belonged to the South Arabian tribe Tanukh, a part of which
had migrated to Syria before the time of Islam.  He was born
in 973 at Ma'arrat un-Nu`man, a Syrian town nineteen hours'
journey south of Aleppo, to the governor of which it was
subject at that time.  He lost his father while he was still
an infant, and at the age of four lost his eyesight owing to
smallpox.  This, however, did not prevent him from attending
the lectures of the best teachers at Aleppo, Antioch and
Tripoli.  These teachers were men of the first rank, who
had been attracted to the court of Saif-ud-Daula, and their
teaching was well stored in the remarkable memory of the
pupil.  At the age of twenty-one Abu-l-'Ala returned to
Ma`arra, where he received a pension of thirty dinars
yearly.  In 1007 he visited Bagdad, where he was admitted
to the literary circles, recited in the salons, academies
and mosques, and made the acquaintance of men to whom he
addressed some of his letters later.  In 1009 he returned to
Ma`arra, where he spent the rest of his life in teaching and
writing.  During this period of scholarly quiet he developed
his characteristic advanced views on vegetarianism, cremation
of the dead and the desire for extinction after death.

Of his works the chief are two collections of his poetry and
two of his letters.  The earlier poems up to 1029 are of the
kind usual at the time.  Under the title of Saqt uz-Zand they
have been published in Bulaq (1869), Beirut (1884) and Cairo
(1886).  The poems of the second collection, known as the
Luzum ma lam ralzann, or the Luzumiy'yat, are written
with the difficult rhyme in two consonants instead of one,
and contain the more original, mature and somewhat pessimistic
thoughts of the author on mutability, virtue, death, &c.
They have been published in Bombay (1886) and Cairo (1889)
. The letters on various literary and social subjects were
published with commentary by Shain Effendi in Beirut (1894),
and with English translation, &c., by prof.  D. S. Margoliouth
in Oxford (1898).  A second collection of letters, known
as the Risalat ul-Ghufran, was summarized and partially
translated by R. A. Nicholson in the Journal of the Royal
Asiatic Society (1900, pp. 637 ff.; 1902, pp. 75 ff., 337
ff., 813 ff.).

BIBLIOGRAPHY.---C.  Rieu, De Abu-l-`Alae
Poetae Arabici vita et carminibus (Bonn, 1843); A. von
Kremer, Uber die philosophischen Gedichte des Abu-l-.Ala
(Vienna, 1888); cf. also the same writer's articles in the
Zeitschrift der deutschen morgenlandischen Gesellschaft
(vols. xxix., xxx., xxxi. and xxxviii.).  For his life see the
introduction to D. S. Margoliouth's edition of the letters,
supplemented by the same writer's articles ``Abu-l-`Ala
al-Ma`arri's Correspondence on Vegetarianism'' in the Journal
of the Royal Asiatic Society (1902, pp. 289 ff.). (G. W. T.)

ABU-L-`ATAHIYA [Abu Ishaq Isma`il ibn Qasim
al-`Anazi] (748-828), Arabian poet, was born at Ain ut-Tamar
in the Hijaz near Medina.  His ancestors were of the tribe of
Anaza.  His youth was spent in Kufa, where he was engaged
for some time in selling pottery.  Removing to Bagdad, he
continued his business there, but became famous for his
verses, especially for those addressed to Utba, a slave of
the caliph al-Mahdi.  His affection was unrequited, although
al-Mahdi, and after him Harun al-Rashid, interceded for
him.  Having offended the caliph, he was in prison for a short
time.  The latter part of his life was more ascetic.  He died in
828 in the reign of al-Ma`mun.  The poetry of Abu-l-'Atahiya
is notable for its avoidance of the artificiality almost
universal in his days.  The older poetry of the desert had
been constantly imitated up to this time, although it was
not natural to town life.  Abu-l-'Atahiya was one of the
first to drop the old qasida (elegy) form.  He was very
fluent and used many metres.  He is also regarded as one of
the earliest philosophic poets of the Arabs.  Much of his
Poetry is concerned with the observation of common life and
morality, and at times is pessimistic.  Naturally, under
the circumstances, he was strongly suspected of heresy.

His poems (Diwan) with life from Arabian sources have
been published at the Jesuit Press in Beirut (1887,
2nd ed. 1888).  On his position in Arabic literature
see W. Ahlwardt, Diwan des Abu Nowas (Greifswald,
1861), pp. 21 ff.; A. von Kremer, Culturgeschichte des
Orients (Wien, 1877), vol. ii. pp. 372 ff. (G. W. T.)

ABULPARAJ [Abu-l-Faraj,Ah ibn ul-Husain ul-Isbahani]
(897--967), Arabian scholar, was a member of the tribe of the
Quraish (Koreish) and a direct descendant of Marwan, the last
of the Omayyad caliphs.  He was thus connected with the Omayyad
rulers in Spain, and seems to have kept up a correspondence with
them and to have sent them some of his works.  He was born in
Ispahan, but spent his youth and made his early studies in
Bagdad.  He became famous for his knowledge of early Arabian
antiquities.  His later life was spent in various parts of
the Moslem world, in Aleppo with Saif-ud-Daula (to whom he
dedicated the Book of Songs), in Rai with the Buyid vizier
Ibn'Abbad and elsewhere.  In his last years he lost his
reason.  In religion he was a Shiite.  Although he wrote
poetry, also an anthology of verses on the monasteries of
Mesopotamia and Egypt, and a genealogical work, his fame rests
upon his Book of Songs (Kitab ul-Aghani), which gives
an account of the chief Arabian songs, ancient and modern,
with the stories of the composers and singers.  It contains
a mass of information as to the life and customs of the early
Arabs, and is the most Valuable authority we have for their
pre-Islamic and early Moslem days.  A part of it was published
by J. G. L. Rosegarten with Latin translation (Greifswald,
1840).  The text was published in 20 vols. at Bulaq in
1868.  Vol. xxi. was edited by R. E. Brunnow (Leyden,
1888).  A volume of elaborate indices was edited by I. Guidi
(Leyden, 1900), and a missing fragment of the text was
published by J. Wellhausen in the Zeitschrift der deutschen
morgenlandischen Gesellschaft, vol; 50, pp. 146 ff.
Biographical Dictionary, vol. ii. pp. 249 ff. (G. W. T.)

ABUL PAZL, wazir and historiographer of the great Mogul
emperor, Akbar, was born in the year A.D. 1551.  His
career as a minister of state, brilliant though it was,
would probably have been by this time forgotten but for the
record he himself has left of it in his celebrated history.
The Akbar Nameh, or Book of Akbar, as Abul Fazl's chief
literary work, written in Persian, is called, consists of two
parts--the first being a complete history of Akbar's reign
and the second, entitled Ain-i-Akbari, or Institutes of
Akbar, being an account of the religious and political
constitution and administration of the empire.  The style is
singularly elegant, and the contents of the second part possess
a unique and lasting interest.  An excellent translation
of the Ain by Francis Gladwin was published in Calcutta,
1783-1786.  It was reprinted in London very inaccurately,
and copies of the original edition are now exceedingly rare
and correspondingly valuable.  It was also translated by
Professor Blockmann in 1848.  Abul Fazl died by the hand of
an assassin, while returning from a mission to the Deccan in
1602.  The murderer was instigated by Prince Sehm, afterwards
Jahangir, who had become jealous of the minister's influence.

ABULFEDA [Abud-Fida' Isma'Il ibn'Ah,Imad-ud-Dni]
(1273-1331), Arabian historian and geographer, was born at
Damascus, whither his father Malik ul-Afdal, brother of
the prince of Hamah, had fled from the Mongols.  He was a
descendant of Ayyub, the father of Saladin.  In his boyhood
he devoted himself to the study of the Koran and the sciences,
hut from his twelfth year was almost constantly engaged in
military expeditions, chiefly against the crusaders.  In 1285
he was present at the assault of a stronghold of the knights
of St John, and he took part in the sieges of Tripoli, Acre
and Qal'at ar-Rum.  In 1298 he entered the service of the
Mameluke Sultan Malik al-Nasir and after twelve years was
invested by him with the governorship of Hamah.  In 1312 he
became prince with the title Malik us-Salhn, and in 1320
received the hereditary rank of sultan with the title Malik
ul-Mu'ayyad.  For more than twenty years altogether he reigned
in tranquillity and splendour, devoting himself to the duties
of government and to the composition of the works to which
he is chiefly indebted for his fame.  He was a munificent
patron of men of letters, who came in large numbers to his
court.  He died in 1331.  His chief historical work in
An Abridgment of the History at the Human Race, in the
form of annals extending from the creation of the world
to the year 1329 (Constantinople, 2 vols. 1869).  Various
translations of parts of it exist, the earliest being a Latin
rendering of the section relating to the Arabian conquests in
Sicily, by Dobelius, Arabic professor at Palermo, in 1610
(preserved in Muratori's Rerum Italicarum Scriptores, vol.
i.).  The section dealing with the pre-Islamitic period
was edited with Latin translation by H. O. Fleischer under
the title Abulfedae Historia Ante-Islamica (Leipzig,
1831).  The part dealing with the Mahommedan period was
edited, also with Latin translation, by J. J. Reiske as
Annales Muslemici (5 vols., Copenhagen, 1789--1794) . His
Geography is, like much of the history, founded on the
works of his predecessors, and so ultimately on the work of
Ptolemy.  A long introduction on various geographical matters
is followed by twenty-eight sections dealing in tabular
form with the chief towns of the world.  After each name
are given the longitude, latitude, ``climate,'' spelling,
and then observations generally taken from earlier authors.
Parts of the work were published and translated as early
as 1650 (cf. Carl Brockelmann's Geschichte der Arabischen
Litteratur, Berlin, 1902, vol. ii. pp. 44-46).  The text
of the whole was published by M`G. de Slane and M. Reinaud
(Paris, 1840), and a French translation with introduction by
M. Reinaud and Stanislas Guyard (Paris, 1848-1883). (G. W. T.)

ABU-L-QASIM [Khalaf ibn'Abbas uz-Zahrawi], Arabian
physician and surgeon, generally known in Europe as
ABULCASIS, flourished in the tenth century at Cordova as
physician to the caliph 'Abdur-Rahman III. (912--961).  No
details of his life are known.  A part of his compendium
of medicine was published in Latin in the 16th century as
Liber theoricae nec non practicae Alsaharavii (Augsburg,
1519).  His manual of surgery was published at Venice in
1497, at Basel in 1541, and at Oxford Abulcasis de Chirurgia
arabice et latine cura Johannis Channing (2 vols. 1778).

For his other works see Carl Brockelmann, Geschichte der arabischen
Litteratur (Weimar, 1898), vol. i. pp. 239-240. (G. W. T.)

ABUNDANTIA (``Abundance''), a Roman goddess, the personification
of prosperity and good fortune.  Modelled after the Greek Demeter,
she is practically identical with Copia, Annona and similar
goddesses.  On the coins of the later Roman emperors she is
frequently represented holding a cornucopia, from which she
shakes her gifts, thereby at the same time in- dicating the
liberality of the emperor or empress.  She may be compared
with Domina Abundia (Old Fr. Dame Habonde, Notre Dame
d'Abondance), whose name often occurs in poems of the Middle
Ages, a beneficent fairy, who brought plenty to those whom she
visited (Grimm, Teutonic Mythology, tr. 1880, i. 286-287).

ABU NUWAS [Abu,Ah Hal-asan ibn Hani'al-Hakami] (c.
756-810), known as Abu Nuwas, Arabian poet, was born in al
Ahwaz, probably about 756. His mother was a Persian, his
father a soldier, a native of Damascus.  His studies were made
in Basra under Abu Zaid and Abu'Ubaida (q.v.), and in
Kufa under Khalaf al-Ahmar.  He is also said to have spent a
year with the Arabs in the desert to gain purity of language.
Settling in Bagdad he enjoyed the favour of Harun al-Rashid
and al-Amin, and died there probably about 810. The greater
part of his life was characterized by great licentiousness
and disregard of religion, but in his later days he became
ascetic.  Abu Nuwas is recognized as the greatest poet of his
time.  His mastery of language has led to extensive quotation
of his verses by Arabian scholars.  Genial, cynical, immoral, he
drew on all the varied life of his time for the material of his
poems.  In his wine-songs especially the manners of the upper
classes of Bagdad are revealed.  He was one of the first to
ridicule the set form of the qasida (elegy) as unnatural,
and has satirized this form in several poems.  See I. Goldziher,
Abhandlungen zur Arabischen Philologie (Leyden, 1896),
i. pp. 145 ff.  His poems were collected by several Arabian
editors.  One such collection (the MS. of which is now in
Vienna) contains nearly 5000 verses grouped under the ten
headings: wine, hunting, praise, satire, love of youths, love
of women, obscenities, blame, elegies, renunciation of the
world.  His collected poems (Diwan) have been published
in Cairo (1860) and in Beirut (1884).  The wine-songs
were edited by W. Ahlwardt under the title Diwan des Abu
Nowas. 1. Die lveinlieder (Greifswald, 1861). (G. W. T.)

ABU SIMBEL, or IPSAMBUL, the name of a group of temples
of Rameses II. (c. 1250 B.C.) in Nubia, on the left
bank of the Nile, 56 m. by river S. of Korosko.  They are
hewn in the cliffs at the riverside, at a point where the
sandstone hills on the west reach the Nile and form the
southern boundary of a wider portion of the generally barren
valley.  The temples are three in number.  The principal
temple, probably the greatest and most imposing of all rock-hewn
monuments, was discovered by Burckhardt in 1812 and opened by
Belzoni in 1817. (The front has been cleared several times,
most recently in 1892, but the sand is always pressing forward
from the north end.) The hillside was recessed to form the
facade, backed against which four immense seated colossi of
the king, in pairs on either side of the entrance, rise from
a platform or forecourt reached from the river by a flight of
steps.  The colossi are no less than 65 ft. in height, of
nobly placid design, and are accompanied by smaller figures
of Rameses' queen and their sons and daughters; behind and
over them is the cornice, with the dedication below in a
line of huge hieroglyphs, and a long row of apes, standing in
adoration of the rising sun above.  The temple is dedicated
primarily to the solar gods Amenre of Thebes and Raharakht of
Heliopolis, the true sun god; it is oriented to the east so
that the rays of the sun in the early morning penetrate the
whole length of two great halls to the innermost sanctuary and
fall upon the central figures of Amenre and Rameses, which are
there enthroned with Ptah of Memphis and Raharakht on either
side.  The interior of the temple is decorated with coloured
sculpture of fine workmanship and in good preservation; the
scenes are more than usually interesting; some are of religious
import (amongst them Rameses as king making offerings to
himself as god), others illustrate war in Syria, Libya and
Ethiopia: another series depicts the events of the famous
battle with the Hittites and their allies at Kadesh, in which
Rameses saved the Egyptian camp and army by his personal
valour.  Historical stelae of the same reign are engraved
inside and outside the temple; the most interesting is that
recording the marriage with a Hittite princess in the 34th
year.  Not the least important feature of the temple belongs
to a later age, when some Greek, Carian and Phoenician
soldiers of one of the kings named Psammetichus (apparently
Psammetichus II., 594-589 B.C.) inscribed their names upon
the two southern colossi, doubtless the only ones then clear of
sand.  These graffiti are of the highest value for the early
history of the alphabet, and as proving the presence of Greek
mercenaries in the Egyptian armies of the period.  The upper
part of the second colossus (from the south) has fallen;
the third was repaired by Sethos II. not many years after
the completion of the temple.  This great temple was wholly
rock-cut, and is now threatened by gradual ruin by sliding
on the planes of stratification.  A small temple, immediately
to the south of the first, is believed to have had a built
antechamber: it is the earliest known example of a ``birth
chapel,'' such as was usually attached to Ptolemaic temples
for the accommodation of the divine mother-consort and her
son.  The third and northernmost temple, separated from
the others by a ravine, is on a large scale; the colossi of
the facade are six in number and 53 ft. high, representing
Rameses and his queen Nefrere, who dedicated the temple
to the goddess Hathor.  The whole group forms a singular
monument of Rameses' unbounded pride and self-glorification.

See EGYPT; J. H. Breasted, Ancient Records, Egypt,
vol. iii. pp. 124 et seq., esp. 212; ``The Temples
of Lower Nubia,'' in the American Journal of Semitic
Languages and Literatures, October 1906. (F. LL. G.)

ABU TAMMAM [Habib ibn Aus] (807-846), Arabian poet,
was, like Buhturi, of the tribe of Tai (though some say
he was the son of a Christian apothecary named Thaddeus,
and that his genealogy was forged).  He was born in Jasim
(Josem), a place to the north-east of the Sea of Tiberias or
near Manbij (Hierapolis).  He seems to have spent his youth
in Homs, though, according to one story, he was employed
during his boyhood in selling water in a mosque in Cairo.
His first appearance as a poet was in Egypt, but as he failed
to make a living there he went to Damascus and thence to
Mosul.  From this place he made a visit to the governor of
Armenia, who awarded him richly.  After 833 he lived mostly in
Bagdad, at the court of the caliph Mo,tasim.  From Bagdad he
visited Khorassan, where he enjoyed the favour of Abdallah ibn
Tahir.  About 845 he was in Ma'arrat un Nu`man, where he met
Buhturi.  He died in Mosul.  Abu Tammam is best known in
literature as the compiler of the collection of early poems
known as the Hamasa (q.v..) Two other h collections of
a similar nature are ascribed to him.  His own poems I
have been somewhat neglected owing to the success of his
compilations, but they enjoyed great repute in his lifetime,
and were distinguished for the purity of their style, the merit
of the verse and the excellent manner of treating subjects.
His poems (Diwan) were published in Cairo (A.D. 1875).

See Life in Ibn Khallikan's Biographical Dictionary,
trans. by M`G. de Slane (Paris and London, 1842), vol. i.
pp. 348 ff.; and in the Kitab ul-Aghani (Book of Songs)
of Abulfaraj (Bulaq, 1869), vol. xv. pp. 100-108. (G.W.  T.)

ABUTILON (from the Arabic aubutilun, a name given by
Avicenna to this or an allied genus), in botany, a genus of
plants, natural order Malvaceae (Mallows), containing about
eighty species, and widely distributed in the tropics.  They
are free-growing shrubs with showy bell-shaped flowers, and
are favorite greenhouse plants.  They may be grown outside
in England during the summer months, but a few degrees of
frost is fatal to them.  They are readily propagated from
cuttings taken in the spring or at the end of the summer.  A
large number of horticultural varieties have been developed
by hybridization, some of which have a variegated foliage.

ABUTMENT, a construction in stone or brickwork designed to
receive and resist the lateral pressure of an arch, vault or
strut.  When built outside a wall it is termed a buttress.

ABU UBAIDA [Ma,mar ibn ul-Muthanna] (728-825), Arabian
scholar, was born a slave of Jewish Persian parents in Basra,
and in his youth was a pupil of Abu,Amr ibn ul-,Ala.  In
803 he was called to Bagdad by Harun al-Rashjd.  He died in
Basra.  He was one of the most learned and authoritative
scholars of his time in all matters pertaining to the Arabic
language, antiquities and stories, and is constantly cited by
later authors and compilers.  Juhiz held him to be the most
learned scholar in all branches of human knowledge, and Ibn
Hisbam accepted his interpretation even of passages in the
Koran.  The titles of 105 of his works are mentioned in the
Fihrist, and his Book of Days is the basis of parts of
the history of Ibn al-Athir and of the Book of Songs
(see ABULFARAJ), but nothing of his (except a song) seems to
exist now in an independent form.  He is often described as a
Kharijite.  This, however, is true only in so far as he
denied the privileged position of the Arab people before
God. He was, however, a strong supporter of the Shu'ubite
movement, i.e. the movement which protested against the
idea of the superiority of the Arab race over all others.
This is especially seen in his satires on Arabs (which made
him so hated that no man followed his bier when he died).  He
delighted in showing that words, fables, customs, &c., which
the Arabs believed to be peculiarly their own, were derived
from the Persians.  In these matters he was the great rival
of Asma'i (q.v..) M`G. de Slane (Paris and London, 1842),
vol. iii. pp. 388-398; also I. Goldziher's Muhammedanische
Studien (Halle, 1888), vol. i. pp. 194-206. (G. W. T.)

ABYDOS, an ancient city of Mysia, in Asia Minor, situated at
Nagara Point on the Hellespont, which is here scarcely a mile
broad.  It probably was originally a Thracian town, but was
afterwards colonized by Milesians.  Here Xerxes crossed the
strait on his bridge of boats when he invaded Greece.  Abydos
is celebrated for the vigorous resistance it made against Philip
V. of Macedon (200 B.C.), and is famed in story for the loves
of Hero and Leander.  The town remained till late Byzantine
times the toll station of the Hellespont, its importance being
transferred to the Dardanelles (q.v.), after the building
of the ``Old Castles'' by Sultan Mahommed II. (c. 1456).

See Choiseul-Gouffier, Voyage dans l'empire ottoman (Paris, 1842).

ABYDOS, one of the most ancient cities of Upper Egypt,
about 7 m.  W. of the Nile in lat. 26 deg.  10' N. The Egyptian
name was Abdu, ``the hill of the symbol or reliquary,''
in which the sacred head of Osiris was preserved.  Thence
the Greeks named it Abydos, like the city on the Hellespont;
the modern Arabic name is Arabet el Madfuneh. The history
of the city begins in the late prehistoric age, it having
been founded by the pre-Menite kings (Petrie, Abydos,
ii. 64), whose town, temple and tombs have been found
there.  The kings of the Ist dynasty, and some of the IInd
dynasty, were also buried here, and the temple was renewed
and enlarged by them.  Great forts were built on the desert
behind the town by three kings of the IInd dynasty.  The
temple and town continued to be rebuilt at intervals down
to the times of the XXXth dynasty, and the cemetery was used
continuously.  In the XIIth dynasty a gigantic tomb was
cut in the rock by Senwosri (or Senusert) III. Seti I. in
the XIXth dynasty founded a great new temple to the south
of the town in honour of the ancestral kings of the early
dynasties; this was finished by Rameses (or Ramessu) II., who
also built a lesser temple of his own.  Mineptah (Merenptah)
added a great Hypogeum of Osiris to the temple of Seti.  The
latest building was a new temple of Nekhtnebf in the XXXth
dynasty.  From the Ptolemaic times the place continued to decay
and no later works are known (Petrie, Abydos, i. and ii.).

The worship here was of the jackal god Upuaut (Ophols,
Wepwoi), who ``opened the way'' to the realm of the dead,
increasing from the Ist dynasty to the time of the XIIth
dynasty and then disappearing after the XVIIIth.  Anher
appears in the XIth dynasty; and Khentamenti, the god of the
western Hades, rises to importance in the middle kingdom and
then vanishes in the XVIIIth.  The worship here of Osiris
in his various forms begins in the XIIth dynasty and becomes
more important in later times, so that at last the whole
place was considered as sacred to him (Abydos, ii. 47).

The temples successively built here on one site were nine
or ten in number, from the Ist dynasty, 5500 B.C. to the
XXVIth dynasty, 500 B.C..  The first was an enclosure,
about 30X 50 ft., surrounded by a thin wall of unbaked
bricks.  Covering one wall of this came the second temple of
about 40 ft. square in a wall about 10 ft. thick.  An outer
temenos (enclosure) wall surrounded the ground.  This outer
wall was thickened about the IInd or IIIrd dynasty.  The old
temple entirely vanished in the IVth dynasty, and a smaller
building was erected behind it, enclosing a wide hearth of black
ashes.  Pottery models of offerings are found in the ashes,
and these were probably the substitutes for sacrifices decreed
by Cheops (Khufu) in his temple reforms.  A great clearance of
temple offerings was made now, or earlier, and a chamber full
of them has yielded the fine ivory carvings and the glazed
figures and tiles which show the splendid work of the Ist
dynasty.  A vase of Menes with purple inlaid hieroglyphs
in green glaze and the tiles with relief figures are the
most important pieces.  The noble statuette of Cheops in
ivory, found in the stone chamber of the temple, gives
the only portrait of this greatest ruler.  The temple was
rebuilt entirely on a larger scale by Pepi I. in the VIth
dynasty.  He placed a great stone gateway to the temenos, an
outer temenos wall and gateway, with a colonnade between the
gates.  His temple was about 40X50 ft. inside, with stone
gateways front and back, showing that it was of the processional
type.  In the XIth dynasty Menthotp (Mentuhotep) III. added
a colonnade and altars.  Soon after, Sankhkere entirely
rebuilt the temple, laying a stone pavement over the area,
about 45 ft. square, besides subsidiary chambers.  Soon after
Senwosri (Senusert) I. in the XIIth dynasty laid massive
foundations of stone over the pavement of his predecessor.  A
great temenos was laid out enclosing a much larger area, and
the temple itself was about three times the earlier size. .

The XVIIIth dynasty began with a large chapel of Amasis
(Ahmosi, Aahmes) I., and then Tethmosis (Thothmes, Tahutmes)
III. built a far larger temple, about 130X200 ft.  He made
also a processional way past the side of the temple to the
cemetery beyond, with a great gateway of granite.  Rameses III.
added a large building; and Amasis II. in the XXVIth dynasty
rebuilt the temple again, and placed in it a large monolith
shrine of red granite, finely wrought.  The foundations of
the successive temples were comprised within about 18 ft.
depth of ruins; these needed the closest examination to
discriminate the various buildings, and were recorded by over
4000 measurements and 1000 levellings (Petrie, Abydos, ii.).

The temple of Seti I. was built on entirely new ground
half a mile to the south of the long series of temples just
described.  This is the building best known as the Great
Temple of Abydos, being nearly complete and an impressive
sight.  A principal object of it was the adoration of the early
kings, whose cemetery, to which it forms a great funerary
chapel, lies behind it.  The long list of the kings of the
principal dynasties carved on a wall is known as the ``Table
of Abydos.'' There were also seven chapels for the worship of
the king and principal gods.  At the back were large chambers
connected with the Osiris worship (Caulfield, Temple of the
Kings); and probably from these led out the great Hypogeum
for the celebration of the Osiris mysteries, built by Mineptah
(Murray, Osireion.) The temple was originally 550 ft. long,
but the forecourts are scarcely recognizable, and the part in
good state is about 250 ft. long and 350 ft. wide, including
the wing at the side.  Excepting the list of kings and a
panegyric on Rameses II., the subjects are not historical but
mythological.  The work is celebrated for its delicacy and
refinement, but lacks the life and character of that in earlier
ages.  The sculptures have been mostly published in hand copy,
not facsimile, by Mariette in his Abydos, i.  The adjacent
temple of Rameses II. was much smaller and simpler in plan; but
it had a fine historical series of scenes around the outside,
of which the lower parts remain.  A list of kings, similar
to that of Seti, formerly stood here; but the fragments were
removed by the French consul and sold to the British Museum.

The Royal Tombs of the earliest dynasties were placed about
a mile back on the great desert plain.  The earliest is about
10X20ft. inside, a pit lined with brick walls, and originally
roofed with timber and matting.  Others also before Menes
are 15X25 ft.  The tomb probably of Menes is of the latter
size.  After this the tombs increase 111 size and complexity.
The tomb-pit is surrounded by chambers to hold the offerings,
the actual sepulchre being a great wooden chamber in the
midst of the brick-lined pit.  Rows of small tomb-pits for the
servants of the king surround the royal chamber, many dozens
of such burials being usual.  By the end of the IInd dynasty
the type changed to a long passage bordered with chambers
on either hand, the royal burial heing in the middle of the
length.  The greatest of these tombs with its dependencies
covered a space of over 3000 square yards.  The contents of
the tombs have been nearly destroyed by successive plunderers;
enough remained to show that rich jewellery was placed on the
mummies, a profusion of vases of hard and valuable stones
from the royal table service stood about the body, the
store-rooms were filled with great jars of wine, perfumed
ointment and other supplies, and tablets of ivory and of
ebony were engraved with a record of the yearly annals of the
reigns.  The sealings of the various officials, of which
over 200 varieties have been found, give an insight into
the public arrangements (Petrie, Royal Tombs, i. and ii.).

The cemetery of private persons begins in the Ist dynasty with
some pit tombs in the town.  It was extensive in the XIIth
and XIIIth dynasties and contained many rich tombs.  In the
XVIIIth-XXth dynasties a large number of fine tombs were made,
and later ages continued to bury here till Roman times.  Many
hundred funeral steles were removed by Mariette's workmen,
without any record of the burials (Mariette, Abydos, ii. and
iii.).  Later excavations have been recorded by Ayrton, Abydos,
iii.; Maclver, El Amrah and Abydos; and Garstang, El Arabah.

The forts lay behind the town.  That known as Shunet ez
Zebib is about 450X250 ft. over all, and still stands 30 ft.
high.  It was built by Rhasekhemui, the last king of the IInd
dynasty.  Another fort nearly as large adjoined it, and
is probably rather older.  A third fort of a squarer form
is now occupied by the Coptic convent; its age cannot
be ascertained (Ayrton, Abydos, iii.). (W. M. F. P.)

ABYSS (Gr. a-, privative, bussos, bottom), a bottomless
depth; hence any deep place.  From the late popular abyssimus
(superlative of Lon Latin abyssus) through the French abisme
(i.e. abime) is derived the poetic form abysm, pronounced
as late as 1616 to rhyme with time. The adjective ``abyssal''
or ``abysmal'' has been used by zoologists to describe deep
regions of the sea; hence abysmal zone, abysmal flora and
fauna, abysmal accumulations, the deposit on the abysmal
bed of the ocean.  In heraldry, the abyss is the middle of an
escutcheon.  In the Greek version of the Old Testament the
word represents (1) the,-original chaos (Gen. i. 2), (2)
the Hebrew tehom (``a surging water-deep''), which is used
also in apocalyptic and kabbalistic literature and in the New
Testament for hell; the place of punishment (cf. Eurip. Phoen.
for the ``yawning chasm of Tartarus''); in the Revised (not
the Authorized) version abyss is generally used for this
idea.  Primarily in the Septuagint cosmography the word is
applied (a) to the waters under the earth which originally
covered it, and from which the springs and rivers are supplied,
(b) to the waters of the firmament which were regarded as
closely connected with those below.  Derivatively, from the
general idea of depth, it acquired the meaning of the place
of the dead, though apparently never quite the same as Sheol.
In Revelation it is the prison of evil spirits whence they
may occasionally be let loose, and where Satan is doomed to
spend 1000 years.  Beneath the altar in the temple of Jerusalem
there was believed to be a passage which led down to the abyss
of the world, where the foundation-stone of the earth was
laid.  In rabbinical cosmography the abyss is a region of
Gehenna situated below the ocean bed and divided into three or
seven parts imposed one above the other.  In the Kabbalah the
abyss as the opening into the lower world is the abode of evil
spirits, and corresponds to the opening of the abyss to the
world above.  In general the abyss is regarded vaguely as a
place of indefinite extent, the abode of mystery and sorrow.

See G. Schiaparelli, Astronomy in tha Old
Testament (Eng. trans., Oxford, 1905).

ABYSSINIA (officially ETHIOPIA), an inland country and
empire of N.E. Africa lying, chiefly, between 5 deg.  and 15 deg.  N.
and 35 deg.  and 42 deg.  E. It is bounded N. by Eritrea (Italian).
W. by the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan, S. by British East Africa,
S.E. and E. by' the British.  Ita!ian and French possessions
in Somaliland and on the Red Sea. The coast lands held by
European powers, which cut off Abyssinia from access to the
sea, vary in width from 40 to 250 miles.  The country approaches
nearest to the ocean on its N.E. border, where the frontier is
drawn about 40 m. from the coast of the Red Sea. Abyssinia is
narrowest in the north, being here 230 n1. across from east to
west.  It broadens out southward to a width of 900 m. along
the line of 9 deg.  N., and resembles in shape a triangle with
its apex to the north.  It is divided into Abyssinia proper
(i.e. Tigre, Amhara, Gojam, &c.), Shoa, Kaffa and Galla
land----all these form a geographical unit---and central
Somaliland with Harrar.  To the S.W. Abyssinia also includes
part of the low country of the Sobat tributary of the
Nile.  The area of the whole state is about 350,000 sq.
m., of which Abyssinian Somaliland covers fully a third.

(1) Physical Features.-- Between the valley of the Upper Nile
and the low lands which skirt the south-western shores of the
Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden is a region of elevated plateaus
from which rise various mountain ranges.  These tablelands
and mountains constitute Abyssinia, Shoa, Kaffa and Galla
land.  On nearly every side the walls of the plateaus rise
with considerable abruptness from the plains, constituting
outer mountain chains.  The Abyssinian highlands are thus
a clearly marked orographic division.  From Ras Kasar (18 deg.
N.) to Annesley Bay (15 deg.  N.) the eastern wall of the plateau
runs parallel to the Red Sea. It then turns due S. and follows
closely the line of 40 deg.  E. for some 400 m.  About 9 deg.  N. there
is a break in the wall, through which the river.  Hawash flows
eastward.  The main range at this point trends S.W., while
south of the Hawash valley, which is some 3000 ft. below the
level of the mountains, another massif rises in a direct line
south.  This second range sends a chain (the Harrar hills)
eastward to the Gulf of Aden.  The two chief eastern ranges
maintain a parallel course S. by W., with a broad upland
valley between---in which valley are a series of lakes---to
about 3 deg.  N., the outer (eastern) spurs of the plateau still
keeping along the line of 40 deg.  E. The southern escarpment of
the plateau is highly irregular, but has a general direction
N.W. and S.E. from 6 deg.  N. to 3 deg.  N. It overlooks the depression
in which is Lake Rudolf and---east of that lake--southern
Somaliland.  The western wall of the plateau from 6 deg.  N.
to 11 deg.  N. is well marked and precipitous.  North of 11 deg.
N. the hills turn more to the east and fall more gradually
to the plains at their base.  On its northern face also
the plateau falls in terraces to the level of the eastern
Sudan.  The eastern escarpment is the best defined of these
outer ranges.  It has a mean height of from 7000 to 8000
ft., and in many places rises almost perpendicularly from the
plain.  Narrow and deep clefts, through which descend mountain
torrents to lose themselves in the sandy soil of the coast
land, afford means of reaching the plateau, or the easier
route through the Hawash valley may be chosen.  On surmounting
this rocky barrier the traveller finds that the encircling
rampart rises little above the normal level of the plateau.

(2) The aspect of the highlands is most impressive.  The
northern portion, lying mainly between 10 deg.  and 15 deg.  N.,
consists of a huge mass of Archaean rocks with a mean height
of from 7000 to 7500 ft. above the sea, and is fl00ded in a
deep central depression by the waters of Lake Tsana.  Above
the plateau rise several irregular and generally ill-defined
mountain ranges which attain altitudes of from 12,000 to over
15,000 ft.  Many of the mountains are of weird and fantastic
shape.  Characteristic of the country are the enormous
fissures which divide it, formed in the course of ages by
the erosive action of water.  They are in fact the valleys
of the rivers which, rising on the uplands or mountain
sides, have cut their way to the surrounding lowlands.  Some
of the valleys are of considerable width; in other cases the
opposite walls of the gorges are but two or three hundred
yards apart, and fall almost vertically thousands of feet,
representing an erosion of hard rock of many millions of cubic
feet.  One result of the action of the water has been the
formation of numerous isolated flat-topped hills or small
plateaus, known as ambas, with nearly perpendicular sides.
The highest peaks are found in the Simen (or Semien) and Gojam
ranges.  The Simen Mountains he N.E. of Lake Tsana and
culminate in the snow-covered peak of Daschan (Dajan), which
has an altitude of 15,160 ft.  A few miles east and north
respectively of Dajan are Mounts Biuat and Abba Jared, whose
summits are a few feet only below that of Dajan.  In the Chok
Mountains in Gojam Agsias Fatra attains a height of 13,600 ft.

Parallel with the eastern escarpment are the heights of Baila
(12,500 ft.), Abuna Josef (13,780 ft.), and Kollo (14,100
ft.), the last-named being S.W. of Magdala.  The valley
between these hills and the eastern escarpment is one of
the longest and most profound chasms in Abyssinia.  Between
Lake Tsana and the eastern hills are Mounts Guna (13,800
ft.) and Uara Sahia (13,000 ft.).  The figures given are,
however, approximate only.  The southern portion of the
highlands---the 10 deg.  N. roughly marks the division between
north and south---has more open tableland than the northern
portion and fewer lofty peaks.  Though there are a few heights
between 10,000 and 12,000 ft., the majority do not exceed 8000
ft.  But the general character of the southern regions is
the same as in the north---a much-broken hilly plateau.

Most of the Abyssinian uplands have a decided slope to the
north-west, so that nearly all the large rivers find their way
in that direction to the Nile.  Such are the Takazze in the
north, the Abai in the centre, and the Sobat in the south, and
through these three arteries is discharged about four-fifths
of the entire drainage.  The rest is carried off, almost due
north by the Khor Baraka, which occasionally reaches the Red
Sea south of Suakin; by the Hawash, which runs out in the
saline lacustrine district near the head of Taiura Bay; by the
Webi Shebeli (Wabi Shebeyli) and Juba, which flow S.E. through
Somaliland, though the Shebeli fails to reach the Indian Ocean;
and by the Omo. the main feeder of the closed basin of Lake Rudolf.

The Takazze, which is the true upper course of the Atbara,
has its head-waters in the central tableland; and falls from
about 7000 to 2500 ft. in the tremendous crevasse through
which it sweeps round west, north and west again down to the
western terraces, where it passes from Abyssinian to Sudan
territory.  During the rains the Takazze (i.e. the
``Terrible'') rises some 18 ft. above its normal level, and
at this time forms an impassable barrier between the northern
and central provinces.  In its lower course the river is
known by the Arab name Setit.  The Setit is joined (14 deg.  10'
N., 36 deg.  E.) by the Atbara, a river formed by several streams
which rise in the mountains W. and N.W. of Lake Tsana.
The Gash or Mareb is the most northerly of the Abyssinian
rivers which flow towards the Nile valley.  Its head-waters
rise on the landward side of the eastern escarpment within
50 miles of Annesley Bay on the Red Sea. It reaches the
Sudan plains near Kassala, beyond which place its waters are
dissipated in the sandy soil.  The Mareb is dry for a great
part of the year, but like the Takazze is subject to sudden
freshets during the rains.  Only the left bank of the upper
course of the river is in Abyssinian territory, the Mareb
here forming the boundary between Eritrea and Abyssinia.

(3) The Abai---that is, the upper course of the Blue Nile--has
its source near Mount Denguiza in the Goiam highlands (about
11 deg.  N. and 37 deg.  E.), and first flows for 70 m. nearly due
north to the south side of Lake Tsana.  Tsana (q.v.), which
stands from 2500 to 3000 ft. below the normal level of the
plateau, has somewhat the aspect of a flooded crater.  It has
an area of about 1100 sq. m., and a depth in some parts of 250
ft.  At the south-east corner the rim of the crater is, as
it were. breached by a deep crevasse through which the Abai
escapes, and here dovelb. ps a great semicircular bend like that
of the Takazzo, but in the reverse direction---east, south
and north-west---down to the plains of Sennar, where it takes
the name of Bahr-el-Azrak or Blue Nile.  The Abai has many
tributaries.  Of these the Bashilo rises near Magdala and
drains eastern Amhara; the Jamma rises near Ankober and drains
northern Shoa; the Muger rises near Adis Ababa and drains
south-western Shoa; the Didessa, the largest of the Abai's
affluents, rises in the Kaffa hills and has a generally S. to
N. course; the Yabus runs near the western edge of the plateau
escarpment.  All these are perennial rivers.  The right-hand
tributaries, rising mostly on the western sides of the
plateau, have steep slopes and are generally torrential in
character.  The Bolassa, however, is perennial, and the
Rahad and Dinder are important rivers in flood-time.

In the mountains and plateaus of Kaffa and Galla in the
south-west of Abyssinia rise the Baro, Gelo, Akobo and
other of the chief affluents of the Sobat tributary of the
Nile.  The Akobo, in about 7 deg.  50' N. and 33 deg.  E., joins the
Pibor, which in about 8 1/2 deg.  N. and 33 deg.  20' E. unites with
the Baro, the river below the confluence taking the name of
Sobat.  These rivers descend from the mountains in great
falls, and like the other Abyssinian streams are unnavigable in
their upper courses.  The Baro on reaching the plain becomes,
however, a navigable stream affording an open waterway to the
Nile.  The Baro, Pibor and Akobo form for 250 m. the W. and
S.W. frontiers of Abyssinia (see NILE, SOBAT and SUDAN.)

The chief river of Abyssinia flowing east is the Hawash
(Awash, Awasi), which rises in the Shoan uplands and makes
a semicircular bend first S.E. and then N.E. It reaches the
Afar (Danakil) lowlands through a broad breach in the eastern
escarpment of the plateau, beyond which it is joined on its
left bank by its chief affluent, the Germama (Kasam), and
then trends round in the direction of Tajura Bay. Here the
Hawash is a copious stream nearly 200 ft. wide and 4 ft.
deep, even in the dry season, and during the floods rising
50 or 60 ft. above low-water mark, thus inundating the plains
for many miles along both its banks.  Yet it fails to reach
the coast, and after . a winding course of about 500 m.
passes (in its lower reaches) through a series of badds
(lagoons) to Lake Aussa, some 60 or 70 m. from the head.of
Tajura Bay. In this lake the river is lost.  This remarkable
phenomenon is explained by the position of Aussa in the
centre of a saline lacustrine depression several hundred
feet below sea-level.  While most of the other lagoons are
highly saline, with thick incrustations of salt round their
margins, Aussa remains fresh throughout the year, owing to
the great body of water discharged into it by the Hawash.

Another lacustrine region extends from the Shoa heights
south-west to the Samburu (Lake Rudolf) depression.
In this chain of lovely upland lakes, some fresh, some
brackish, some completely closed, others connected by short
channels, the chief links in their order from north to south
are:---Zwai, communicating southwards with Hara and Lamina,
all in the Arusi Galla territory; then Abai with an outlet
to a smaller tarn in the romantic Baroda and Gamo districts,
skirted on the west sides by grassy slopes and wooded ranges
from 6000 to nearly 9000 ft. high; lastly, in the Asille
country, Lake Stefanie, the Chuwaha of the natives, completely
closed and falling to a level of about 1800 ft. above the
sea.  To the same system obviously belongs the neighbouring
Lake Rudolf (q.v.), which is larger than all the rest put
together.  This lake receives at its northern end the waters
of the ()mo, which rises in the Shoa highlands and is a
perennial river with many affluents.  In its course of some
370 m. it has a total fall of about 6000 ft. (from 7600
at its source to 1600 at lake-level), and is consequently
a very rapid stream, being broken by the Kokobi and other
falls, and navigable only for a short distance above its
mouth.  The chief rivers of Somaliland (q.v.), the Webi
Shebeli and the Juba (q.v.), have their rise on the
south-eastenn slopes of the Abyssinian escarpment, and the
greater part of their course is through territory belonging to
Abyssinia.  There are numerous hot springs in Abyssinia, and
earthquakes, though of no great severity, are not uncommon.

(4) Geology.----The East African tableland is continued
into Abyssinia.  Since the visit of W. T. Blanford in
1870 the geology has received little attention from
travellers.  The following formations are represented:--



                    Sedimentary and Metamorphic.
 Recent.                        Coral, alluvium, sand.
 Tertiary.                      (?) Limestones of Harrar.
 Jurassic.                      Antalo Limestones.
 Triassic (?).                  Adigrat Sandstones.
 Archaean.                      Gneisses, schists, slaty rocks.

                            Igneous.
 Recent.                        Aden Volcanic Series.
 Tertiary, Cretaceous (?).      Magdala group.
 Jurassic.                      Ashangi group.


Archaean.--The metamorphic rocks compose the main mass
of the tableland, and are exposed in every deep valley
in Tigre and along the valley of the Blue Nile.  Mica
schists form the prevalent rocks.  Hornblende schist
also occur and a compact felspathic rock in the Suris
defile.  The foliae of the schists strike north and south.

Triassic (?).---In the region of Adigrat the metamorphic
rocks are invariably overlain by white and brown sandstones,
unfossiliferous, and attaining a maximum thickness of 1000
feet.  They are overlain by the fossiliferous limestones of
the Antalo group.  Around Chelga and Adigrat coal-bearing beds
occur, which Blanford suggests may be of the same age as the
coal-bearing strata of India.  The Adigrat Sandstone possibly
represents some portion of the Karroo formation of South Africa.

Jurassic.---The fossiliferous limestones of Antalo are
generally horizontal, but are in places much disturbed
when interstratified with trap rocks.  The fossils are
all characteristic Oolite forms and include species of
Hemicidaris, Pholadomya, Ceromya, Trigonia and Alaria.

Igneous Rocks.---Above a height of 8000 ft. the country consists
of bedded traps belonging to two distinct and unconformable
groups.  The lower (Ashangi group) consists of basalts and
dolerites often amygdaloidal.  Their relation to the Antalo
limestones is uncertain, but Blanford considers them to be
not later in age than the Oolite.  The upper (Magdala group)
contains much trachytic rock of considerable thickness,
lying perfectly horizontally, and giving rise to a series of
terraced ridges characteristic of central Abyssinia.  They are
interbedded with unfossiliferous sandstones and shales.  Of
more recent date (probably Tertiary) are some igneous rocks,
rich in alkalis, occurring in certain localities in southern
Abyssinia.  Of still more recent date are the basalts and
ashes west of Massawa and around Annesley Bay and known as
the Aden Volcanic Series.  With regard to the older igneous
rocks, the enormous amount they have suffered from denudation
is a prominent feature.  They have been worn into deep and
narrow ravines, sometimes to a depth of 3000 to 4000 ft.

(5) Climate.---The climate of Abyssinia and its dependent
territories varies greatly.  Somaliland and the Danakil lowlands
have a hot, dry climate producing semi-desert conditions; the
country in the lower basin of the Sobat is hot, swampy and
malarious.  But over the greater part of Abyssinia as well
as the Galla highlands the climate is very healthy and
temperate.  The country lies wholly within the tropics, but
its nearness to the equator is counterbalanced by the elevation
of the land.  In the deep valleys of the Takazze and Abai,
and generally in places below 4000 ft., the conditions are
tropical and fevers are prevalent.  On the uplands, however,
the air is cool and bracing in summer, and in winter very
bleak.  The mean range of temperature is between 60 deg.  and
80 deg.  F. On the higher mountains the climate is Alpine in
character.  The atmosphere on the plateaus is exceedingly
clear, so that objects are easily recognizable at great
distances.  In addition to the variation in climate dependent
on elevation, the year may be divided into three seasons.
Winter, or the cold season, lasts from October to February,
and is followed by a dry hot period, which about the middle of
June gives place to the rainy season.  The rain is heaviest in
the Takazze basin in July and August.  In the more southern
districts of Gojam and Wallega heavy rains continue till
the middle of September, and occasionally October is a wet
month.  There are also spring and winter rains; indeed rain
often falls in every month of the year.  But the rainy season
proper, caused by the south-west monsoon, lasts from June to
mid-September, and commencing in the north moves southward.
In the region of the Sobat sources the rains begin earlier
and last longer.  The rainfall varies from about 30 in. a
year in Tigre and Amhara to over 40 in. in parts of Galla
land.  The rainy season is of great importance not only to
Abyssinia but to the countries of the Nile valley, as the
prosperity of the eastern Sudan and Egypt is largely dependent
upon the rainfall.  A season of light rain may be sufficient
for the needs of Abyssinia, but there is little surplus water
to find its way to the Nile; and a shortness of rain means
a low Nile, as practically all the flood water of that river
is derived from the Abyssinian tributaries (see NILE.)

(6) Flora and Fauna.--As in a day's journey the traveller
may pass from tropical to almost Alpine conditions of
climate, so great also is the range of the flora and fauna.
In the valleys and lowlands the vegetation is dense, but
the general appearance of the plateaus is of a comparatively
bare country with trees and bushes thinly scattered over
it.  The glens and ravines on the hillside are often thickly
wooded, and offer a delightful contrast to the open downs.
These conditions are particularly characteristic of the northern
regions; in the south the vegetation on the uplands is more
luxuriant.  Among the many varieties of trees and plants
found are the date palm, mimosa, wild olive, giant sycamores,
junipers and laurels, the myrrh and Other gum trees (gnarled
and stunted, these flourish most on the eastern foothills),
a magnificent pine (the Natal yellow pine, which resists the
attacks of the white ant), the fig, orange, lime, pomegranate,
peach, apricot, banana and other fruit trees; the grape vine
(rare), blackberry and raspberry; the cotton and indigo
Plants, and occasionally the sugar cane.  There are in the
south large forests of valuable timber trees; and the coffee
plant is indigenous in the Kaffa country, whence it takes its
name.  Many kinds of grasses and flowers abound.  Large areas
are covered by the kussa, a hardy member of the rose family,
which grows from 8 to 10 ft. high and has abundant pendent red
blossoms.  The flowers and the leaves of this plant are
highly prized for medicinal purposes.  The fruit of the
hurarina, a tree found almost exclusively in Shoa, yields
a black grain highly esteemed as a spice.  On the tableland
a great variety of grains and vegetables are cultivated.
A fibrous plant, known as the sanseviera, grows in a wild
state in the semi-desert regions of the north and south-east.

In addition to the domestic animals enumerated below (sec.  8) the
fauna is very varied.  Elephant and rhinoceros are numerous in
certain low-lying districts, especially in the Sobat valley.
The Abyssinian rhinoceros has two horns and its skin has no
folds.  The hippopotamus and crocodile inhabit the larger
rivers flowing west, but are not found in the Hawash, in which,
however, otters of large size are plentiful.  Lions abound
in the low countries and in Somaliland.  In central Abyssinia
the lion is no longer found except occasionally in the river
valleys.  Leopards, both spotted and black, are numerous and
often of great size; hyaenas are found everywhere and are
hardy and fierce; the lynx, wolf, wild dog and jackal are also
common.  Boars and badgers are more rarely seen.  The giraffe
is found in the western districts, the zebra and wild ass
frequent the lower plateaus and the rocky hills of the
north.  There are large herds of buffalo and antelope, and
gazelles of many varieties and in great numbers are met
with in most parts of the country.  Among the varieties are
the greater and lesser kudu (both rather rare); the duiker,
gemsbuck, hartebeest, gerenuk (the most common--it has
long thin legs and a camel-like neck); klipspringer, found
on the high plateaus as well as in the lower districts;
and the dik-dik, the smallest of the antelopes, its weight
rarely exceeding 10 lb. , common in the low countries and the
foothills.  The civet is found in many parts of Abyssinia,
but chiefly in the Galla regions.  Squirrels and hares
are numerous, as are several kinds of monkeys, notably
the guereza, gelada, guenon and dog-faced baboon.  They
range from the tropical lowlands to heights of 10,000 ft.

Birds are very numerous, and many of them remarkable for the
beauty of their plumage.  Great numbers of eagles, vultures, hawks,
bustards and other birds of prey are met with; and partridges,
duck, teal, guinea-fowl, sand-grouse, curlews, woodcock, snipe,
pigeons, thrushes and swallows are very plentiful.  A fine
variety of ostrich is commonly found.  Among the birds prized
for their plumage are the marabout, crane, heron, blacks bird,
parrot, jay and humming-birds of extraordinary brilliance,
Among insects the most numerous and useful is the bee, honey
everywhere constituting an important part of the food of the
inhabitants.  Of an opposite class is the locust.  Serpents
are not numerous, but several species are poisonous.  There
are thousands of varieties of butterflies and other insects.

(7) Provinces and Towns.--Politically, Abyssinia is divided
into provinces or kingdoms and dependent territories.  The
chief provinces are Tigro, which occupies the N.E. of the
country; Amhara or Gondar, in the centre; Gojam, the district
enclosed by the great semicircular sweep of the Abai; and Shoa
(q.v.), which lies east of the Abai and south of Amhara.
Besides these ancient provinces and several others of smaller
size, the empire includes the Wallega region, lying S.W. of
Gojam; the Harrar province in the east; Kaffa (q.v.) and Galla
land, S.W. and S. of Shoa; and the central part of Somaliland.

With the exception of Harrar (q.v.), a city of Arab
foundation, there are no large towns in Abyssinia.  Harrar
is some 30 m.  S.E. of Dire Dawa, whence there is a railway
(188 m. long) to Jibuti on the Gulf of Aden.  The absence
of large towns in Abyssinia proper is due to the provinces
into which the country is divided having been for centuries
in a state of almost continual warfare, and to the frequent
change of the royal residences on the exhaustion of fuel
supplies.  The earliest capital appears to have been Axum
(q.v.) in Tigre, where there are extensive ruins.  In
the middle ages Gondar in Amhara became the capital of the
country and was so regarded up to the middle of the 19th
century. Since 1892 the capital has been Adis Ababa in the
kingdom of Shoa.

The other towns of Abyssinia worthy of mention may be grouped
according to their geographical position.  None of them has
a permanent population exceeding 6000, but at several large
markets are held periodically.  In Tigre there are Adowa
or Adua ( 17 m.  E. by N. of Axum), Adigrat, Macalle and
Antalo The three last-named places are on the high plateau
near its eastern escarpment and on the direct road south
from Massawa to Shoa.  West of Adigrat is the monastery of
Debra-Domo, one of the most celebrated sanctuaries in Abyssinia.

In Amhara there are:---Magdala (q.v.), formerly the residence
of King Theodore, and the place of imprisonment of the British
captives in 1866.  Debra-Tabor (``Mount Tabor''), the chief
royal residence during the reign of King John, occupies a strong
strategic position overlooking the fertile plains east of Lake
Tsana, at a height of about 8,620 ft. above the sea; it has
a population of 3000, including the neighbouring station of
Samara, headquarters of the Protestant missionaries in the
time of King Theodore.  Ambra-Mariam, a fortified station
midway between Gondar and Debra-Tabor near the north-east
side of Lake Tsana, with a population of 3000; here is the
famous shrine and church dedicated to St Mary, whence the
name of the place, ``Fort St Mary.'' Mahdera-Mariam (``Mary's
Rest''), for some time a royal residence, and an important
market and great place of pilgrimage, a few miles south-west
of Debra-Tabor; its two churches of the ``Mother'' and the
``Son'' are held in great veneration by all Abyssinians; it
has a permanent population estimated at over 4000, Gallas and
Amharas, the former mostly Mahommedan.  Sokota, one of the
great central markets, and capital of the province of Waag in
Amhara, at the converging point of several main trade routes;
the market is numerously attended, especially by dealers in the
salt blocks which come from Lake Alalbed.  The following towns
are in Shoa:---Ankober, formerly the capital of the kingdom;
Aliu-Amba, east of Ankober on the trade route to the Gulf of
Aden; Debra-Berhan (Debra-Bernam) (``Mountain of Light''),
once a royal residence; Liche (Litche), one of the largest
market towns in southern Abyssinia.  Licka, the largest market
in Galla land, has direct communications with Gojam, Shoa and
other parts of the empire.  Bonga, the commercial centre of
Kaffa, and Jiren, capital of the neighbouring province of
Jimma, are frequented by traders from all the surrounding
provinces, and also by foreign merchants from the seaports
on the Gulf of Aden.  Apart from these market-places there
are no settlements of any size in southern Abyssinia.

Communications.--The J'buti-Dire Dawa railway has been mentioned
above.  The continuation of this railway to the capital was
begun in 1906 from the Adis Ababa end.  There are few roads
in Abyssinia suitable for wheeled traffic.  Transport is
usually carried on by mules, donkeys, pack-horses and (in the
lower regions) camels.  From Dire Dawa to Harrar there is a
well-made carriage road, and from Harrar to Adis Ababa the
caravan track is kept in good order, the river Hawash being
spanned by an iron bridge.  There is also a direct trade
route from Dire Dawa to the capital.  Telegraph lines connect
Adis Ababa and several important towns in northern Abyssinia
with Massawa, Harrar and Jibuti.  There is also a telephonic
service, the longest line being from Harrar to the capital.

(8) Agriculture.--The soil is exceedingly fertile, as is
evident from the fact that Egypt owes practically all its
fertility to the sediment carried into the Nile by its Abyssinian
tributaries.  Agriculture is extensively followed, chiefly
by the Gallas, the indolence of the Abyssinians preventing
them from being good farmers.  In the lower regions a wide
variety of crops are grown --among them maize, durra, wheat,
barley, rye, teff, pease, cotton and sugar-cane---and many
kinds of fruit trees are cultivated. Teff is a kind of
millet with grains about the size of an ordinary pin-head,
of which is made the bread commonly eaten.  The low grounds
also produce a grain, tocussa, from which black bread is
made.  Besides these, certain oleaginous plants, the
suf, nuc and selite (there are no European equivalents
for the native names), and the ground-nut are largely
grown.  The castor bean grows wild, the green castor in the
low, damp regions, the red castor at medium altitudes.  The
kat plant, a medicinal herb which has a tonic quality, is
largely grown in the Harrar province.  On the higher plateaus
the hardier cereals only are cultivated.  Here the chief
crops are wheat, barley, teff, peppers, vegetables of all
kinds and coffee.  Above 10,000 ft. the crops are confined
practically to barley, oats, beans and occasionally wheat.

Coffee is one of the most important products of the country,
and its original home is believed to be the Kaffa highlands.
It is cultivated in the S., S.E. and S.W. provinces, and to
a less extent in the central districts.  Two qualities of
coffee are cultivated, one known as Abyssinian, the other as
Harrar-Mocha.  The ``Abyssinian'' coffee is grown very extensively
throughout the southern highlands.  Little attention is paid
to the crop, the berries being frequently gathered from the
ground, and consequently the coffee is of comparatively low
grade. ``Harrar-Mocha'' is of first-class quality.  It is
grown in the highlands of Harrar, and cultivated with extreme
care.  The raising of cotton received a considerable impetus
in the early years of the 20th century.  The soil of the
Hawash valley proved particularly suitable for raising this
crop.  In the high plateaus the planting of seeds begins in
May, in the lower plateaus and the plains in June, but in
certain parts where the summer is long and rain abundant
sowing and reaping are going on at the same time.  Most
regions yield two, many three crops a year.  The methods
of culture are primitive, the plough commonly used being a
long pole with two vertical iron teeth and a smaller pole
at right angles to which oxen are attached.  This implement
costs about four shillings.  The ploughing is done by the
men, but women and girls do the reaping.  The grain is usually
trodden out by cattle and is often stored in clay-lined
pits.  Land comparatively poor yields crops eight to tenfold
the quantity sown; the major part of the land yields twenty to
thirtyfold.  In the northern parts of the empire very little
land is left uncultivated.  The hillsides are laid out in
terraces and carefully irrigated in the dry season, the
channels being often two miles or more long.  Of all the
cereals barley is the most widely grown.  The average rate
of pay to an agricultural labourer is about threepence a
day in addition to food, which may cost another penny a day.

The Abyssinians keep a large number of domestic animals.  Among
cattle the Sanga or Galla ox is the most common.  The bulls
are usually kept for ploughing, the cow being preferred for
meat.  Most of the cattle are of the zebu or hump-backed
variety, hut there are also two breeds----one large, the other
resembling the Jersey cattle---which are straight-backed.
The horns of the zebu variety are sometimes four feet long.
Sheep, of which there are very large flocks, belong to the short
and fat-tailed variety.  The majority are not wool-bearing,
but in one district a very small black sheep is raised for
wool.  The small mountain breed of sheep weigh no more than 20
to 30 lb. apiece.  Goats are of both the long and short-haired
varieties.  The horns of the large goats are often thirty
inches in length and stand up straight from the head.  The
goats from the Arusi Galla country have fine silky hair which
is sometimes sixteen inches long.  The meat of both sheep and
goats is excellent; that of the latter is preferred by the
natives.  In 1904 the estimated number of sheep and goats
in the country was 20,000,000.  Large quantities of butter,
generally rancid, are made from the milk of cows, goats and
sheep.  In the Leka province small black pigs are bred in
considerable numbers.  The horses (very numerous) are small hut
strong; they are generally about 14 hands in height.  The best
breeds come from the Shoa uplands.  The ass is also small and
strong; and the mule, bred in large numbers, is of excellent
quality, and both as a transport animal and as a mount is
preferred to the horse.  The mule thrives in every condition
of climate, is fever-proof, travels over the most difficult
mountain passes with absolute security, and can carry with
ease a load of 200 lb.  The average height of a mule is 124
hands.  The country is admirably adapted for stock-raising.

(9) Minerals.---In the south and south-west provinces
placer gold mines by the banks of watercourses are worked by
Gallas as an industry subsidiary to tending their flocks and
fields.  In the Wallega district are veins of gold-bearing
quartz, mined to a certain extent.  There are also gold
mines in southern Shoa The annual output of gold is worth not
less than L. 500,000.  Only a small proportion is exported.
Besides gold, silver, iron, coal and other minerals are
found.  Rock-salt is obtained from the province of Tigre.

Trade and Currency.---Abyssinia being without seaports,
the external trade is through Massawa (Italian) in the
north, Jibuti (French), Zaila and Berbera (British) in the
south, and for all these ports Aden is a distributing
centre.  For Tigre and Amhara products Massawa is the best
port, for the rest of the empire, Jibuti.  For southern
Abyssinia, Kaffa and Galla lands, Harrar is the great
entrepot, goods being forwarded thence to Jibuti and the other
Somaliland ports.  There is also a considerable trade with the
Anglo-Egyptian Sudan through the frontier towns of Rosaires and
Gallabat.  At the French and British ports thore is freedom
of trade, but on goods for Abyssinia entering Massawa a
discriminating tax is levied if they are not imported from Italy.

The chief articles of export are coffee, skins, ivory, civet,
ostrich feathers, gum, pepper, kat plant (used by Moslems for
its stimulating properties), gold (in small quantities) and
live stock.  The trade in skins is mainly with the L 1ited
States through Aden; America also takes a large proportion
of the coffee exported.  For live stock there is a good
trade with Madagascar.  The chief imports are cotton goods,
the yearly value of this trade being fully L. 250,000; the
sheetings are largely American; the remainder English and
Indian.  No other article of import approaches cotton in
importance, but a considerable trade is done in arms and
ammunition, rice, sugar, flour and other foods, and a still
larger trade in candles and matches (from Sweden), oil,
carpets (oriental and European), hats and umbrellas.  Commerce
long remained in a backward condition; but under the Emperor
Menelek II. efforts were made to develop the resources of
the country, and in 1905 the total volume of trade exceeded

Until the end of the 19th century the usual currency was the
Maria Theresa dollar, bars of rock-salt and cartridges.  In
1894 a new coinage was introduced, with the Menelek dollar
or talari, worth about two shillings, as the standard.
This new coinage gradually superseded the older currency.
In 1905 the Bank of Abyssinia, the first banking house in the
country, was founded, with its headquarters at Adis Ababa.
The bank, which was granted a monopoly of banking business in
the empire for fifty years, has a capital of L. 500,000, has
the power to issue notes, to mint the Abyssinian coinage,
and to engage in commercial operations.  It was founded under
Egyptian law by the National Bank of Egypt, which institution
had previously obtained a concession from the emperor Menelek.

(10) Government.---The political institutions are of a feudal
character.  Within their provinces the rases (princes)
exercise large powers.  The emperor, styled negus negusti
(king of kings), is occasionally assisted by a council of
rases.  In October 1907 an imperial decree announced the
constitution of a cabinet on European lines, ministers
being appointed to the portfolios of foreign affairs, war,
commerce, justice and finance.  The legal system is said to
be based on the Justinian code.  From the decisions of the
judges there is a right of appeal to the emperor.  The chief
judicial official is known as the affh-negus (breath of the
king).  The Abyssinian church (q.v.) is presided over
by an abuna, or archbishop.  The land is not held in fee
simple, but is subject to the control of the emperor or the
church.  Revenue is derived from an ad valorem tax on all
imports; the purchase and sale of animals; from royalties on
trading concessions, and in other ways, including fees for
the administration of justice.  Education, of a rudimentary
character, is given by the clergy.  In 1907 a system of compulsory
education ``of all male children over the age of 12'' was
decreed.  The education was to be state provided, Coptic teachers
were brought from Egypt and school buildings were erected.

The Abyssinian calendar is as follows:---The Abyssinian year
of 365 days (366 in leap-year) begins on the 1st of Maskarram,
which corresponds to about the 10th of September.  The
months have thirty days each, and are thus named: Maskarram,
Tekemt, Hadar, Tahsas, Tarr, Yekatit, Magawit, Miaziah,
Genbot, Sanni, Hamle, Nas'hi.  The remaining five days in
the year, termed Pagmen or Quaggimi (six in leap-year, the
extra day being named Kadis Yohannis), are put in at the
end and treated as holidays.  Abyssinian reckoning is about
seven years eight months behind the Gregorian.  Festivals,
such as Easter, fall a week later than in western Europe.

Army.--A small standing army is maintained in each province
of Abyssinia proper.  Every able-bodied Abyssinian is expected
to join the army in case of need, and a force, well armed with
modern weapons, approaching 250,000 can be placed in the field.
The cavalry is chiefly composed of Galla horsemen. (F. R. C.)

ETHNOLOGY (i1) The population of the empire is estimated
at from 3,500,000 to 5,000,000.  The inhabitants consist
mainly of the Abyssinians, the Galla and the Somali (the two
last-named peoples are separately noticed).  Of non-African
races the most numerous are Armenians, Indians, Jews and
Greeks.  There is a small colony of British, French, Italians and
Russians.  The following remarks apply solely to Abyssinia
proper and its inhabitants.  It should be remembered that the
term ``Abyssinian'' is purely geographical, and has little
or no ethnical significance; it is derived from the Arabic
Habesh, ``mixed,'' and was a derisive name applied by the
Arabs to the heterogeneous inhabitants of the Abyssinian plateau.

Abyssinia appears to have been originally peopled by the eastern
branch of the Hamitic family, which has occupied this region
from the remotest times, and still constitutes the great bulk
of its inhabitants, though the higher classes are now strongly
Semitized.  The prevailing colour in the central provinces
(Amhara, Gojam) is a deep brown, northwards (Tigre, Lasta)
it is a pale olive, and here even fair complexions are
seen.  Southwards (Shoa, Kobbo, Amuru) a decided chocolate
and almost sooty black is the rule.  Many of the people
are distinctly negroid, with big lips, small nose, broad
at the base, and frizzly or curly black hair.  The negroid
element in the population is due chiefly to the number of
negro women who have been imported into the harems of the
Abyssinians.  The majority, however, may be described as a
mixed Hamito-Semitic people, who are in general well formed and
handsome, with straight and regular features, lively eyes,
hair long and straight or somewhat curled and in colour dark
olive, approaching to black.  The Galla, who came originally
from the south, are not found in many parts of the country,
but predominate in the Wollo district, between Shoa and
Amhara.  It is from the Galla that the Abyssinian army is
largely recruited, and, indeed, there are few of the chiefs
who have not an admixture of Galla blood in their veins.

As regards language, several of the indigenous groups, such as
the Khamtas of Lasta, the Agau or Agaos of Agaumeder (``Agao
land'') and the Falashas (q.v.), the so-called ``Jews''
of Abyssinia, still speak rude dialects of the old Hamitic
tongue.  But the official language and that of all the
upper classes is of Semitic origin, derived from the ancient
Himyaritic, which is the most archaic member of the Semitic
linguistic family.  Geez, as it is called, was introduced
with the first immigrants from Yemen, and although no longer
spoken is still studied as the liturgical language of the
Abyssinian Christians.  Its literature consists of numerous
translations of Jewish, Greek and Arabic works, besides a
valuable version of the Bible. (See ETHIOPIA.) The best
modern representative of Geez is the Tigrina of Tigre and
Lasta, which is much purer but less cultivated than the Amharic
dialect, which is used in state documents, is current in the
central and southern provinces and is much affected by Hamitic
elements.  All are written in a peculiar syllabic script
which, un- like all other Semitic forms, runs from left to
right, and is derived from that of the Sabaeans and Minaeans,
still extant in the very old rock-inscriptions of south Arabia.

The hybridism of the Abyssinians is reflected in their
political and social institutions, and especially in their
religious beliefs and practices.  On a seething mass of African
heathendom, already in early times affected by primitive
Semitic ideas, was suddenly imposed a form of Christianity
which became the state religion.  While the various ethnical
elements have been merged in the composite Abyssinian nation,
the primitive and more advanced religious ideas have nowhere
been fused in a uniform Christian system.  Foreigners are
often surprised at the strange mixture of savagery and lofty
notions in a Christian community which, for instance, accounts
accidental manslaughter as wilful murder.  Recourse is still
had to dreams as a means of detecting crime.  A priest is
summoned, and, if his prayers and curses fail, a small boy is
drugged, and ``whatever person he dreams of is fixed on as
the criminal. . . . If the boy does not dream of the person
whom the priest has determined on as the criminal, he is kept
under drugs until he does what is required of him'' (Count
Gleichen, With the Mission to Menelik, chap. xvi., 1898).

The Abyssinian character reflects the country's history.
Murders and executions are frequent, yet cruelty is not a marked
feature of their character; and in war they seldom kill their
prisoners.  When a man is convicted of murder, he is handed
over to the relatives of the deceased, who may either put him
to death or accept a ransom.  When the murdered person has no
relatives, the priests take upon themselves the office of
avengers.  The natural indolence of the people has been
fostered by the constant wars, which have discouraged peaceful
occupations.  The soldiers live by plunder, the monks by alms.
The haughtiest Abyssinian is not above begging, excusing himself
with the remark, ``God has given us speech for the purpose of
begging.'' The Abyssinians are vain and selfish, irritable but
easily appeased; and are an intelligent bright people, fond of
gaiety.  On every festive occasion, as a saint's day, birth,
marriage, &c., it is customary for a rich man to collect
his friends and neighbours, and kill a cow and one or two
sheep.  The principal parts of the cow are eaten raw while yet
warm and quivering, the remainder being cut into small pieces
and cooked with the favourite sauce of butter and red pepper
paste.  The raw meat eaten in this way is considered to
be very superior in taste and much more tender than when
cold.  The statement by James Bruce respecting the cutting
of steaks from a live cow has frequently been called in
question, but there can be no doubt that Bruce actually saw
what he narrates.  Mutton and goat's flesh are the meats
most eaten: pork is avoided on religious grounds, and the
hare is never touched, possibly, as in other countries, from
superstition.  Many forms of game are forbidden; for
example, all water-fowl.  The principal drinks are me'mse,
a kind of mead, and bousa, a sort of beer made from
fermented cakes.  The Abyssinians are heavy eaters and
drinkers, and any occasion is seized as an excuse for a
carouse.  Old and young, of both sexes, pass days and nights
in these symposia, at which special customs and rules
prevail.  Little bread is eaten, the Abyssinian preferring
a thin cake of durra meal or teE, kneaded with water and
exposed to the sun till the dough begins to rise, when it is
baked.  Salt is a luxury; ``he eats salt'' being said of a
spendthrift.  Bars of rock-salt, after serving as coins, are,
when broken up, used as food.  There is a general looseness of
morals: marriage is a very slight tie, which can be dissolved
at any time by either husband or wife.  Polygamy is by no means
uncommon.  Hence there is little family affection, and what
exists is only between children of the same father and mother.
Children of the same father, but of different mothers, are
said to be ``always enemies to each other.'' (Samuel Gobat's
Journal of a Three Years' Residence in Abyssinia, 1834.)

The dress of the Abyssinians is much like that of the
Arabs.  It consists of close-fitting drawers reaching below the
knees, with a sash to hold them, and a large white robe.  The
Abyssinian, however, is beginning to adopt European clothes
on the upper part of the body, and European hats are becoming
common.  The Christian Abyssinians usually go barehead and barefoot,
in contrast to the Mahommedans, who wear turbans and leather
sandals.  The women's dress is a smock with sleeves loose to the
wrist, where they fit tightly.  The priests wear a white jacket
with loose sleeves, a head-cloth like a turban and a special
type of shoe with turned-up toes and soles projecting at the
heel.  In the Woldeba district hermits dress in ochre-yellow
cloths, while the priests of some sects wear hides dyed
red.  Clothes are made of cotton, though the nobles and great
people wear silk robes presented by the emperor as a mark of
honour.  The possessor of one of these is allowed to appear in
the royal presence wearing it instead of having one shoulder
bared, as is the usual Abyssinian method of showing respect.
A high-born man covers himself to the mouth in the presence of
inferiors.  The men either cut their hair short or plait it;
married women plait their hair and wind round the head a black
or parti-coloured silk handkerchief; girls wear their hair
short.  In the hot season no Abyssinian goes without a
flag-shaped fan of plaited rushes.  The Christian Abyssinians,
men and women, wear a blue silk cord round the neck, to
which is often attached a crucifix.  For ornament women wear
silver ankle-rings with bells, silver necklaces and silver
or gold rosettes in the ears.  Silver rings on fingers and
also on toes are common.  The women are very fond of strong
scents, which are generally oils imported from India and
Ceylon.  The men scarcely ever appear without a long curved
knife, generally they carry shield and spear as well.  Although
the army has been equipped with modern rifles, the common
weapon of the people is the matchlock, and slings are still in
use.  The original arms were a sickle-shaped sword, spear and
shield.  The Abyssinians are great hunters and are also
clever at taming wild beasts.  The nobles hunt antelopes with
leopards, and giraffes and ostriches with horse and greyhound.
In elephant-hunting iron bullets weighing a quarter of a pound
are used; throwing-clubs are employed for small game, and
lions are hunted with the spear.  Lion skins belong to the
emperor, but the slayer keeps a strip to decorate his shield.

Stone and mortar are used in building, but the Abyssinian
houses are of the roughest kind, being usually circular huts,
ill made and thatched with grass.  These huts are sometimes
made simply of straw and are surrounded by high thorn hedges,
but, in the north, square houses, built in stories, flat-roofed,
the roof sometimes laid at the same slope as the hillside,
and some with pitched thatched roofs, are common.  The inside
walls are plastered with cow-dung, clay and finely chopped
straw.  None of the houses have chimneys, and smoke soon
colours the interior a dark brown.  Generally the houses are
filthy and ill ventilated and swarm with vermin.  Drainage
and sanitary arrangements do not exist.  The caves of the
highlands are often used as dwellings.  The most remarkable
buildings in Abyssinia are certain churches hewn out of the
solid rock.  The chief native industries are leather-work,
embroidery and filigree metal-work; and the weaving of straw
mats and baskets is extensively practised.  The baskets are
particularly well made, and are frequently used to contain milk.

Abyssinian art is crude and is mainly reserved for rough
frescoes in the churches.  These frescoes, however, often
exhibit considerable skill, and are indicative of the lively
imagination of their painters.  They are in the Byzantine style
and the colouring is gaudy.  Saints and good people are always
depicted full face, the devil and all bad folk are shown in
profile.  Among the finest frescoes are those in the church
of the Holy Trinity at Adowa and those in the church at
Kwarata, on the shores of Lake Tsana.  The churches are usually
circular in form, the walls of stone, the roof thatched.

The chief musical instruments are rough types of trumpets and
flutes, drums, tambourines and cymbals, and quadrangular harps.

HISTORY

(12) Abyssiania, or at least the northern portion of it, was
included in the tract of country known to the ancients as
Ethiopia, the northern limits of which reached at one time to
about Syene.  The connexion between Egypt and Ethiopia was in
early times very intimate, and occasionally the two countries
were under the same ruler, so that the arts and civilization
of the one naturally found their way into the other.  In early
times, too, the Hebrews had commercial intercourse with the
Ethiopians; and according to Abyssinian tradition the queen
of Sheba who visited Solomon was a monarch of their country,
and from their son Menelek the kings of Abyssinia claim
descent.  During the Captivity many of the Jews settled here
and brought with them a knowledge of the Jewish religion.
Under the Ptolemies, the arts as well as the enterprise of the
Greeks entered Ethiopia, and led to the establishment of Greek
colonies.  A Greek inscription at Adulis, no longer extant,
but copied by Cosmas of Alexandria, and preserved in his
Topographia Christiana, records that Ptolemy Euergetes, the
third of the Greek dynasty in Egypt, invaded the countries
on both sides of the Red Sea, and having reduced most of the
provinces of Tigre to subjection, returned to the port of
Adulis, and there offered sacrifices to Jupiter, Mars and
Neptune.  Another inscription, not so ancient, found at Axum,
states that Aizanas, king of the Axumites, the Homerites,
&c., conquered the nation of the Bogos, and returned thanks
to his father, the god Mars, for his victory.  Out of these
Greek colonies appears to have arisen the kingdom of Auxume
which flourished from the ist to the 7th century A.D.
and was at one time nearly coextensive with Abyssinia
proper.  The capital Auxume and the seaport Adulis were then
the chief centres of the trade with the interior of Africa
in gold dust, ivory, leather, aromatics, &c. At Axum, the
site of the ancient capital, many vestiges of its former
greatness still exist; and the ruins of Adulis, which was
once a seaport on the bay of Annesley, are now about 4 m.
from the shore (see ETHIOPIA, The Axumite Kingdom.)

Introduction of Christianity.

(13) Christianity was introduced into the country by Frumentius
(q.v.), who was consecrated first bishop of Ethiopia by St
Athanasius of Alexandria about A.D. 330. From the scanty
evidence available it would appear that the new religion
at first made little progress, and the Axumite kings seem
to have been among the latest converts.  Towards the close
of the 5th century a great company of monks are believed to
have established themselves in the country.  Since that time
monachism has been a power among the people and not without
its influence on the course of events.  In the early part of
the 6th century the king of the Homerites, on the opposite
coast of the Red Sea, having persecuted the Christians, the
emperor Justinian I. requested the king of Auxume, Caleh or
El-Esbaha, to avenge their cause.  He accordingly collected
an army, crossed over into Arabia, and conquered Yemen (c.
525), which remained subject to Ethiopia for about fifty
years.  This was the most flourishing period in the annals
of the country.  The Ethiopians possessed the richest part of
Arabia, carried on a large trade, which extended as far as
India and Ceylon, and were in constant communication with
the Greek empire.  Their expulsion from Arabia, followed
by the conquest of Egypt by the Mahommedans in the middle
of the 7th century, changed this state of affairs, and the
continued advances of the followers of the Prophet at length
cut them off from almost every means of communication with
the civilized world; so that, as Gibbon says, ``encompassed
by the enemies of their religion, the Ethiopians slept for
near a thousand years, forgetful of the world by whom they
were forgotten.'' About A.D. 1000, a Jewish princess,
Judith, conceived the design of murdering all the members
of the royal family, and of establishing herself in their
stead.  During the execution of this project, the infant king
was carded off by some faithful adherents, and conveyed to
Shoa, where his authority was acknowledged, while Judith
reigned for forty years over the rest of the kingdom, and
transmitted the crown to her descendants.  In 1268 the kingdom
was restored to the royal house in the person of Yekunu Amlak.

Portuguese Influence.

(14) Towards the close of the 15th century the Portuguese
missions into Abyssinia began.  A belief had long prevailed
in Europe of the existence of a Christian kingdom in the far
east, whose monarch was known as Prester John, and various
expeditions had been sent in quest of it.  Among others who
had engaged in this search was Pedro de Covilham, who arrived
in Abyssinia in 1490, and, believing that he had at length
reached the far-famed kingdom, presented to the negus, or
emperor of the country, a letter from his master the king of
Portugal, addressed to Prester John.  Covilham remained in the
country, but in 1507 an Armenian named Matthew was sent by the
negus to the king of Portugal to request his aid against the
Mahommedans.  In 1520 a Portuguese fleet, with Matthew on
board, entered the Red Sea in compliance with this request,
and an embassy from the fleet visited the negus, Lebna Dengel
Dawit (David) II., and remained in Abyssinia for about six
years.  One of this embassy was Father Francisco Alvarez,
from whom we have the earliest and not the least interesting
account of the country.  Between 1528 and 1540 armies of
Mahommedans, under the renowned general Mahommed Gran (or
Granye, probably a Somali or a Galla), entered Abyssinia
from the low country to the south-east, and overran the
kingdom, obliging the emperor to take refuge in the mountain
fastnesses.  In this extremity recourse was again had to the
Portuguese.  John Bermudez, a subordinate member of the
mission of 1520, who had remained in the country after the
departure of the embassy, was, according to his own statement
(which is untrustworthy), ordained successor to the abuna
(archbishop), and sent to Lisbon.  Bermudez certainly came to
Europe, but with what credentials is not known.  Be that as
it may, a Portuguese fleet, under the command of Stephen da
Gama, was sent from India and arrived at Massawa in February
1541.  Here he received an ambassador from the negus beseeching
him to send help against the Moslems, and in the July following
a force of 450 musqueteers, under the command of Christopher
da Gama, younger brother of the admiral, marched into the
interior, and being joined by native troops were at first
successful against the enemy; but they were subsequently
defeated, and their commander taken prisoner and put to death
(August 1542).  On the 21st of February 1543, however, Mahommed
Granye was shot in an engagement and his forces totally
routed.  After this, quarrels arose between the negus and
Bermudez, who had returned to Abyssinia with Christopher
da Gama and who now wished the emperor publicly to profess
himself a convert to Rome.  This the negus refused to do,
and at length Bermudez was obliged to make his way out of the
country.  The Jesuits who had accompanied or followed the da
Gama expedition into Abyssinia, and fixed their headquarters
at Fremona (near Adowa), were oppressed and neglected, but
not actually expelled.  In the beginning of the 17th century
Father Pedro Paez arrived at Fremona, a man of great tact and
judgment, who soon rose into high favour at court, and gained
over the emperor to his faith.  He directed the erection of
churches, palaces and bridges in different parts of the
country, and carried out many useful works.  His successor
Mendez was a man of much less conciliatory manners, and
the feelings of the people became strongly excited against
the intruders, till at length, on the death of the negus
Sysenius, Socinius or Seged I., and the accession of his son
Fasilidas in 1633, they were all sent out of the country, after
having had a footing there for nearly a century and a half.

Visits of Poncet and Bruce.

The French physician C. J. Poncet, who went there in 1698,
via Sennar and the Blue Nile, was the only European
that afterwards visited the country before Bruce in
1769.  James Bruce's main object was to discover the sources
of the Nile, which he was convinced lay in Abyssinia.
Accordingly, leaving Massawa in September 1769, he travelled
via Axum to Gondar, where he was well received by King
Tekla Haimanot II. He accompanied the king on a warlike
expedition round Lake Tsana, moving S. round the eastern
shore, crossing the genuine Blue Nile (Abai) close to its
point of issue from the lake and returning via the western
shore.  On a second expedition of his own he proved to his
own satisfaction that the river originated some 4o miles
S.W. of the lake at a place called Geesh (4th of November
1770).  He showed that this river flowed into the lake, and
left it by its now well-known outlet.  Bruce subsequently
returned to Egypt (end of 1772) via Gondar, the upper Atbara,
Sennar, the Nile, and the Korosko desert (see BRUCE, JAMES).

(15) In order to attain a clear view of native Abyssinian
history, as distinct from the visits and influence of
Europeans, it must be borne in mind that during the last
three hundred years, and indeed for a longer period, for
the old chroniclers may be trusted to have given a somewhat
distorted view of the importance of the particular chieftains
with whom they came in contact, the country has been merely
a conglomeration of provinces and districts, ill defined,
loosely connected and generally at war with each other.  Of
these the chief provinces have been Tigre (northern), Amhara
(central) and Shoa (southern).  The seat of government, or
rather of overlordship, has usually been in Amhara, the ruler
of which, calling himself negus negusti (king of kings, or
emperor), has exacted tribute, when he could, from the other
provinces.  The title of negus negusti has been to a
considerable extent based on the blood in the veins of the
claimant.  All the emperors have based their claims on their
direct descent from Solomon and the queen of Sheba; but it
is needless to say that in many, if not in most, cases their
success has been due more to the force of their arms than
to the purity of their lineage.  Some of the rulers of the
larger provinces have at times been given, or have given
themselves, the title of negus or king, so that on occasion
as many as three, or even more, neguses have been reigning
at the same time; and this must be borne in mind by the
student of Abyssinian history in order to avoid confusion of
rulers.  The whole history of the country is in fact one
gloomy record of internecine wars, barbaric deeds and unstable
governments, of adventurers usurping thrones, only to be
themselves unseated, and of raids, rapine and pillage.  Into
this chaos enter from time to time broad rays of sunshine,
the efforts of a few enlightened monarchs to evolve order from
disorder, and to supply to their people the blessings of peace and
civilization.  Bearing these matters in mind, we find that during
the 18th century the most prominent and beneficent rulers were
the emperor Yesu of Gondar, who died about 1720, Sebastie,
negus of Shoa (1703-1718), Amada Yesus of Shoa, who extended
his kingdom and founded Ankober (1743-1774), Tekla Giorgis
of Amhara (1770-1798?) and Asfa Nassen of Shoa (1774-1807),
the latter being especially renowned as a wise and benevolent
monarch.  The first years of the 19th century were disturbed
by fierce campaigns between Guxa, ras of Gondar, and Wolda
Selassie, ras of Tigre, who were both striving for the
crown of Guxa's master, the emperor Eguala Izeion.  Wolda
Selassie was eventually the victor, and practically ruled
the whole country till his death in 1816 at the age of eighty.

British mission and missionary enterprise.

(16) Mention must here be made of the first British mission,
under Lord Valentia and Mr Henry Salt, which was sent in 1805
to conclude an alliance with Abyssinia, and obtain a port on
the Red Sea in case France secured Egypt by dividing up the
Turkish empire with Russia.  This mission was succeeded by many
travellers, missionaries and merchants of all countries, and
the stream of Europeans continued until well into Theodore's
reign.  For convenience' sake we insert at this point a
partial list of missionaries and others who visited the country
during the second third of the 19th century---merely calling
attention to the fact that their visits were distributed
over widely different parts of the country, ruled by distinct
lines of monarchs or governors.  In 1830 Protestant missionary
enterprise was begun by Samuel Gobat and Christian Kugler,
who were sent out by the Church Missionary Society, and were
well received by the ras of Tigre.  Mr Kugler died soon
after his arrival, and his place was subsequently supplied
by Mr C. W. Isenberg, who was followed by Dr Ludwig Krapf,
the discoverer of Mount Kenya, and others.  Mr (afterwards
Bishop) Gobat proceeded to Gondar, where he also met with
a favourable reception.  In 1833 he returned to Europe, and
published a journal of his residence in Abyssinia.  In 1834
Gobat went back to Tigre, but in 1836 ill health compelled
him to leave.  In 1838 other missionaries were obliged to
leave the country, owing to the opposition of the native
priests.  Messrs Isenberg and Krapf went south, and established
themselves at Shoa.  The former soon after returned to England,
but Mr Krapf remained in Shoa till March 1842, when he
removed to Mombasa.  Dr E. Ruppell, the German naturalist,
visited the country in 1831, and remained nearly two years.
M. E. Combes and M. Tamisier arrived at Massawa in 1835, and
visited districts which had not been traversed by Europeans
since the time of the Portuguese.  One who did much at the
time to extend our geographical knowledge of the country was
Dr C. T. Boke (q.v.), who was there from 1840 to 1843.
Mr Mansfield Parkyns was there from 1843 to 1846, and wrote
the most interesting book on the country since the time of
Bruce.  Bishop Gobat having conceived the idea of sending lay
missionaries into the country, who would engage in secular
occupations as well as carry on missionary work, Dr Krapf
returned to Abyssinia in 1855 with Mr Flad as pioneers of that
mission; Krapf, however, was not permitted to remain in the
country.  Six lay workers came out at first, and they were
subsequently joined by others.  Their secular work, however,
appears to have been more valuable to Theodore than their
preaching, so that he employed them as workmen to himself,
and established them at Gaffat, near his capital.  Mr Stern
arrived in Abyssinia in 1860, and after a visit to Europe
returned in 1863, accompanied by Mr and Mrs Rosenthal.1

Rivalry of British and French factions

(17) Wolda Selassie of Tigre was succeeded in 1817, through
force of arms, by Sabagadis of Agame, and the latter, as
ras of Tigre, introduced various Englishmen, whom he much
admired, into the country.  He increased the prosperity of
his land considerably. but by so doing roused the jealousy
of Ras Marie of Amhara--to whom he had refused tribute--and
Ubie, son of Hailo Mariam, a governor of Simen.  In an
ensuing battle (in January 1831), both Sabagadis and Marie
were killed, and Ubie retired to watch events from his own
province.  Marie was shortly succeeded in the ras-ship
of Amhara by Ali, a nephew of Guxa and a Mahommedan.  But
Ubie, who was aiming at the crown, soon attacked Ras Ali,
and after several indecisive campaigns proclaimed himself
negus of Tigre.  To him came many French missionaries and
travellers, chief of whom were Lieut.  Lefebvre, charged
(1839) with political and geographical missions, and
Captains Galinier and Ferret, who completed for him a useful
triangulation and survey of Tigre and Simen (1840-1842).
The brothers Antoine and Arnaud d'Abbadie (q.v.) spent
ten years (1838-1848) in the country, making scientific
investigations of great value, and also involving themselves
in the stormy politics of the country.  Northern Abyssinia
was now divided into two camps, the one, Amhara and Ras
Ali, under Protestant British, and the other, Tigre and
Ubie, under Roman Catholic French, influence.  The latent
hostility between the two factions threatened at one time to
develop into a religious war, but no serious campaigns took
place until Kassa (later Theodore) appeared on the scene.

Rise of the emperor Theodore.

(18) Lij (= Mr) Kassa was born in Kwara, a small district
of Western Amhara, in 1818.  His father was a small local
chief, and his uncle was governor of the districts of Dembea,
Kwara and Chelga between Lake Tsana and the undefined N.W.
frontier.  He was educated in a monastery, but preferred a
more active life, and by his talents and energy came rapidly
to the front.  On the death of his uncle he was made chief of
Kwara, but in consequence of the arrest of his brother Bilawa
by Ras Ali, he raised the standard of revolt against the
latter, and, collecting a large force, repeatedly beat the
troops that were sent against him by the ras (1841-1847).
On one occasion peace was restored by his receiving Tavavich,
daughter of Ras Ali, in marriage; and this lady is said to
have been a good and wise counsellor during her lifetime. He
next turned his arms against the Turks, in the direction of
Massawa, but was defeated; and the mother of Ras Ali having
insulted him in his fallen condition, he proclaimed his
independence.  As his power was increasing, to the detriment
of both Ras Ali and Ubie, these two princes combined against
him, but were heavily defeated by him at Gorgora (on the
southern shore of Lake Tsana) in 1853.  Ubie retreated to
Tigre, and Ras Ali fled to Begemeder, where he eventually
died.  Kassa now ruled in Amhara, but his ambition was to
attain to supreme power, and he turned his attention to
conquering the remaining chief divisions of the country,
Gojam, Tigre and Shoa, which still remained unsubdued.
Berro, ras of Gojam, in order to save himself, attempted
to combine with Tigre, but his army was intercepted by
Kassa and totally destroyed, himself being taken prisoner
and executed (May 1854). Shortly afterwards Kassa moved
against Tigre, defeated Ubie's forces at Deragie,
in Simen (February 1855), took their chief prisoner and
proclaimed himself negus negusti of Ethiopia under the
name of Theodore III. He now turned his attention to Shoa.

Growing power of Shoa

(19) Retracing our steps for a moment in that direction, we
find that in 1813 Sahela (or Sella) Selassie, younger son
of the preceding ras, Wassen Seged, had proclaimed himself
negus or king.  His reign was long and beneficent.  He
restored the towns of Debra-Berhan and Angolala, and founded
Entotto, the strong stone-built town whose ruins overlook
the modern capital, Adis Ababa.  In the terrible ``famine of
St Luke'' in 1835, Selassie still further won the hearts of
his subjects by his wise measures and personal generosity;
and by extending his hospitality to Europeans, he brought
his country within the closer ken of civilized European
powers.  During his reign he received the missions of Major
W. Cornwallis Harris, sent by the governor-general of India
(1841), and M. Rochet d'Hericourt, sent by Louis Philippe
(1843), with both of whom he concluded friendly treaties on
behalf of their respective governments.  He also wrote to Pope
Pius IX., asking that a Roman Catholic bishop should be sent to
him.  This request was acceded to, and the pope despatched
Monsigneur Massaja to Shoa.  But before the prelate could
reach the country, Selassie was dead (1847), leaving his
eldest son, Haeli Melicoth, to succeed him. Melicoth at once
proclaimed himself negus, and by sending for Massaja, who
had arrived at Gondar, gave rise to the suspicion that he
wished to have himself crowned as emperor.  By increasing
his dominions at the expense of the Gallas, he still further
roused the jealousy of the northerners, and a treaty which
he concluded with Ras Ali against Kassa in 1850 determined
the latter to crush him at the earliest opportunity.

Thus it was that in 1855 Kassa, under the name of the emperor
Theodore, advanced against Shoa with a large army. Dissensions
broke out among the Shoans, and after a desperate and futile
attack on Theodore at Debra-Berhan, Haeli Melicoth died of
exhaustion and fever, nominating with his last breath his
eleven-year-old son Menelek2 as successor (November 1855).
Darge, Haeli's brother, took charge of the young prince, but
after a hard fight with Angeda, one of Theodore's rases, was
obliged to capitulate.  Menelek was handed over to the negus,
taken to Gondar, and there trained in Theodore's service.

(20) Theodore was now in the zenith of his career.  He is
described as being generous to excess, free from cupidity,
merciful to his vanquished enemies, and strictly continent,
but subject to violent bursts of anger and possessed of
unyielding pride and fanatical religious zeal.  He was also
a man of education and intelligence, superior to those among
whom he lived, with natural talents for governing and gaining
the esteem of others. He had, further, a noble bearing and
majestic walk, a frame capable of enduring any amount of
fatigue, and is said to have been ``the best shot, the best
spearman, the best runner, and the best horseman in Abyssinia.''
Had he contented himself with the sovereignty of Amhara and
Tigre, he might have maintained his position; but he was led
to exhaust his strength against the Wollo Gallas, which was
probably one of the chief causes of his ruin.  He obtained
several victories over that people, ravaged their country,
took possession of Magdala, which he afterwards made his
principal stronghold, and enlisted many of the chiefs and
their followers in his own ranks.  As has been shown, he also
reduced the kingdom of Shoa, and took Ankober, the capital;
but in the meantime his own people were groaning under his
heavy exactions, rebellions were breaking out in various parts
of his provinces, and his good queen Tavavich was now dead.

Theodore's quarrel with great Britain

The British consul, Walter C. Plowden, who was strongly
attached to Theodore, having been ordered by his government
in 1860 to return to Massawa, was attacked on his way by a
rebel named Garred, mortally wounded, and taken prisoner.
Theodore attacked the rebels, and in the action the murderer
of Mr Plowden was slain by his friend and companion Mr J. T.
Bell, an engineer, but the latter lost his life in preserving
that of Theodore.  The deaths of the two Englishmen were
terribly avenged by the slaughter or mutilation of nearly
2000 rebels. Theodore soon after married his second wite
Terunish, the proud daughter of the late governor of Tigre,
who felt neither affection nor respect for the upstart who had
dethroned her father, and the union was by no means a happy
one.  In 1862 he made a second expedition against the Gallas,
which was stained with atrocious cruelties.  Theodore had
now given himself up to intoxication and lust.  When the
news of Mr Plowden's death reached England, Captain C. D.
Cameron was appointed to succeed him as consul, and arrived
at Massawa in February 1862.  He proceeded to the camp of the
king, to whom he presented a rifle, a pair of pistols and a
letter in the queen's name. In October Captain Cameron was
sent home by Theodore, with a letter to the queen of England,
which reached the Foreign Office on the 12th of February
1863.  This letter was put aside and no answer returned,
and to this in no small degree are to be attributed the
difficulties that subsequently arose with that country. In
November despatches were received from England, but no answer
to the emperor's letter, and this, together with a visit paid
by Captain Cameron to the Egyptian frontier town of Kassala,
greatly offended him; accordingly in January 1864 Captain
Cameron and his suite, with Messrs Stern and Rosenthal, were
cast into prison.  When the news of this reached England, the
government resolved, when too late, to send an answer to the
emperor's letter, and selected Mr Hormuzd Rassam to be its
bearer.  He arrived at Massawa in July 1864, and immediately
despatched a messenger requesting permission to present
himself before the emperor.  Neither to this nor a subsequent
application was any answer returned till August 1865, when
a curt note was received, stating that Consul Cameron had
been released, and if Mr Rassam still desired to visit the
king, he was to proceed by the route of Gallabat.  Later
in the year Theodore became more civil, and the British
party on arrival at the king's camp in Damot, on the 25th
of January 1866, were received with all honour, and were
afterwards sent to Kwarata, on Lake Tsana, there to await
the arrival of the captives.  The latter reached Kwarata
on the 12th of March, and everything appeared to proceed
favourably.  A month later they started for the coast, but had
not proceeded far when they were ail brought back and put into
confinement.  Theodore then wrote a letter to the queen,
requesting European workmen and machinery to be sent to
him, and despatched it by Mr Flad.  The Europeans, although
detained as prisoners, were not at first unkindly treated;
but in the end of June they were sent to Magdala, where they
were soon afterwards put in chains.  They suffered hunger,
cold and misery, and were in constant fear of death, till the
spring of 1869 when they were relieved by the British troops.

Sir Robert Napier's expedition. (21) In the meantime
the power of Theodore in the country was rapidly waning.
Shoa had already shaken off his yoke; Gojam was virtually
independent; Walkeit and Simen were under a rebel chief;
and Lasta, Waag and the country about Lake Ashangi had
submitted to Wagshum Gobassie, who had also overrun
Tigre and appointed Dejaj Kassai his governor. The latter,
however, in 1867 rebelled against his master and assumed
the supreme power of that province.  This was the state of
matters when the English troops made their appearance in the
country.  With a view if possible to effect the release of
the prisoners by conciliatory measures, Mr Flad was sent
back, with some artisans and machinery, and a letter from
the queen, stating that these would be handed over to his
majesty on the release of the prisoners and their return to
Massawa.  This, however, failed to influence the emperor,
and the English government at length saw that they must have
recourse to arms. In July 1867, therefore, it was resolved
to send an army into Abyssinia to enforce the release of
the captives, under Sir Robert Napier (1st Baron Napier of
Magdala).  The landingplace selected was Mulkutto (Zula),
on Annesley Bay, the point of the coast nearest to the site
of the ancient Adulis, and we are told that ``the pioneers
of the English expedition followed to some extent in the
footsteps of the adventurous soldiers of Ptolemy. and met
with a few faint traces of this old-world enterprise'' (C. R.
Markham).  The force amounted to upwards of 16,000 men,
besides 12,640 belonging to the transport service, and
followers, making in all upwards of 32,000 men.  The task to
be accomplished was to march over 400 miles of a mountainous
and little-known country, inhabited by savage tribes, to
the camp or fortress of Theodore, and compel him to deliver
up his captives.  The commander-in-chief landed on the 7th
of January 1868, and soon after the troops began to move
forward through the pass of Senafe, and southward through
the districts of Agame, Tera, Endarta, Wojerat, Lasta and
Wadela.  In the meantime Theodore had been reduced to great
straits.  His army, which at one time numbered over 100,000
men, was rapidly deserting him, and he could hardly obtain
food for his followers.  He resolved to quit his captial
Debra-Tabor, which he burned, and set out with the remains
of his army for Magdala.  During this march he displayed an
amount of engineering skill in the construction of roads, of
military talent and fertility of resource, that excited the
admiration and astonishment of his enemies.  On the afternoon
of the 10th of April a force of about 3000 men suddenly poured
down upon the English in the plain of Arogie, a few miles from
Magdala.  They advanced again and again to the charge, but
were each time driven back, and finally retired in good
order.  Early next morning Theodore sent Lieut.  Prideaux, one
of the captives, and Mr Flad, accompanied by a native chief,
to the English camp to sue for peace.  Answer was returned,
that if he would deliver up all the Europeans in his hands, and
submit to the queen of England, he would receive honourable
treatment.  The captives were liberated and sent away, and
accompanying a letter to the English general was a present
of 1000 cows and 500 sheep, the acceptance of which would,
according to Eastern custom, imply that peace was granted.
Through some misunderstanding, word was sent to Theodore
that the present would be accepted, and he felt that he was
now safe; but in the evening he learned that it had not been
received, and despair again seized him.  Early next morning
he attempted to escape with a few of his followers, but
subsequently returned. The same day (13th April) Magdala was
stormed and taken, practically without loss, and within they
found the dead body of the emperor, who had fallen by his own
hand.  The inhabitants and troops were subsequently sent
away, the fortifications destroyed and the town burned.  The
queen Terunish having expressed her wish to go back to her own
country, accompanied the British army, but died during the
march, and her son Alamayahu, the only legitimate son of the
emperor, was brought to England, as this was the desire of
his father.3 The success of the expedition was in no small
degree owing to the aid afforded by the several native chiefs
through whose country it passed, and no one did more in this
way than Dejaj Kassa or Kassai of Tigre.  In acknowledgment of
this, several pieces of ordnance, small arms and ammunition,
with much of the surplus stores, were handed over to
him, and the English troops left the country in May 1868.

Menelek II., king of Shoa (22) It is now time to return
to the story of the young prince Menelek, who, as we have
seen, had been nominated by his late father as ruler of Shoa,
but was in Theodore's power in Tigre.  The following table
shows his descent since the beginning of the 19th century:--



            Asfa Nassen, d. 1807
                   |
              Wassan Seged = Woizero Zenebe Work
                  d. 1811  |
                           |
             ---------------------------------
             |                               |
        Becurraye                    Sella Selassie = Woizero Betsabesh
                                        (1795-1847)    |
                                                       |
              ---------------------------------------------------
              |                              |                  |
      Haeli Melicoth = Ejigayu             Siefu             Darge
      (1825-1855)    |                   (1826-1860)         b. 1827
                     |                        |
               Menelek II. = Taitu       Mashasha
                  b. 1844  |
                           |
          ----------------------------------------
          |                |                     |
        1 son          Zauditu             Tanina Work
        (dead)         (Judith)             (daughter)


On the retirement of Theodore's forces from Shoa in 1855,
Siefu, brother of Haeli Melicoth, proclaimed himself negus
of Shoa at Ankober, and beat the local representatives of
the northern government.  The emperor returned, however,
in 1858, and after several repulses succeeded in entering
Ankober, where he behaved with great cruelty, murdering or
mutilating all the inhabitants.  Siefu kept up a gallant
defence for two more years, but was then killed by Kebret,
one of his own chiefs. Thus chaos again reigned supreme in
Shoa.  In 1865, Menelek, now a desjazmach 4 of Tigre,
took advantage of Theodore's difficulties with the British
government and escaped to Workitu, queen of the Wollo Galla
country.  The emperor, who held as hostage a son of Workitu,
threatened to kill the boy unless Menelek were given up;
but the gallant queen refused, and lost both her son and her
throne.  The fugitive meanwhile arrived safely in Shoa, and
was there acclaimed as negus.  For the next three years
Menelek devoted himself to strengthening and disciplining
his army, to legislation, to building towns, such as Liche
(near Debra-Berhan), Worra Hailu (Wollo Galla country),
&c., and to repelling the incursions of the Gallas.

King John attains supreme power.

On the death of Theodore (13th April 1868) many Shoans,
including Ras Darge, were released, and Menelek began to
feel himself strong enough, after a few preliminary minor
campaigns, to undertake offensive operations against the
northern princes.  But these projects were of little avail,
for Kassai of Tigre, as above mentioned, had by this time
(1872) risen to supreme power in the north.  With the help
of the rifles and guns presented to him by the British,
he had beaten Ras Bareya of Tigre, Wagshum Gobassie of
Amhara and Tekla Giorgis of Condar, and after proclaiming
himself negus negusti under the name of Johannes or John,
was now preparing to march on Shoa.  Here, however, Menelek
was saved from probable destruction through the action of
Egypt.  This power had, by the advice of Werner Munzinger
(q.v.), their Swiss governor of Massawa, seized and
occupied in 1872 the northern province of Bogos; and, later
on, insisted on occupying Hamasen also, for fear Bogos
should be attacked.  John, after futile protests, collected
an army, and with the assistance of Ras Walad Michael,
hereditary chief of Bogos, advanced against the Egyptian
forces, who were under the command of one Arendrup, a
Dane.  Meeting near the Mareb, the Egyptians were beaten in
detail, and almost annihilated at Gundet (13th November
1875).  An avenging expedition was prepared in the spring
of the following year, and, numbering 14,000 men under Ratib
Pasha, Loring (American), and Prince Hassan, advanced to
Gura and fortified a position in the neighbouthood.  Although
reinforced by Walad Michael, who had now quarrelled with
John, the Egyptians were a second time (25th March 1876)
heavily beaten by the Abyssinians, and retired, losing an
enormous quantity of both men and rifies. Colonel C. G.
Gordon, governor-general of the Sudan, was now ordered to
go and make peace with John, but the king had moved south
with his army, intending to punish Menelek for having raided
Gondar whilst he, John, was engaged with the Egyptians.

(23) Menelek's kingdom was meanwhile torn in twain by serious
dissensions, which had been instigated by his concubine
Bafana.  This lady, to whom he was much attached, had been
endeavouring to secure the succession of one of her own sons
to the throne of Shoa, and had almost succeeded in getting
rid of Mashasha, son of Siefu and cousin of Menelek, who
was the apparent heir.  On the approach of John, the Shoans
united for a time against their common enemy.  But after a
few skirmishes they melted away, and Menelek was obliged to
submit and do obeisance to John.  The latter behaved with
much generosity, but at the same time imposed terms which
effectually deprived Shoa of her independence (March 1878).
In 1879 Gordon was sent on a fresh mission to John on behalf of
Egypt; but he was treated with scant courtesy, and was obllgcd
to leave the country without achieving anything permanent.

Beginning of Italian influence.

The Italians now come on the scene.  Assab, a port near the
southern entrance of the Red Sea, had been bought from the
focal sultan in March 1870 by an Italian company, which,
after acquiring more land in 1879 and 1880, was bought
out by the Italian government in 1882. In this year Count
Pietro Antonelli was despatched to Shoa in order to improve
the prospects of the colony by treaties with Menelek and
the sultan of Aussa.  Several missions followed upon this
one, with more or less successful results; but both John and
Menelek became uneasy when Beilul, a port to the north of
Assab Bay, was occupied by the Italians in January 1885, and
Massawa taken over by them from Egypt in the following month.
This latter act was greatly resented by the Abyssinians, for
by a treaty concluded with a British and Egyptian mission
under Admiral Hewett and Mason Pasha 5 in the previous
year, free transit of goods was to be allowed through this
port.  Matters came to a head in January 1887, when the
Abyssinians, in consequence of a refusal from General Gene
to withdraw his troops, surrounded and attacked a detachment
of 500 Italian troops at Dogali, killing more than 400 of
them.  Reinforcements were sent from Italy, whilst in the
autumn the British government stepped in and tried to mediate
by means of a mission under Mr (afterwards Sir Gerald)
Portal.  His mission, however proved abortive, and after many
difficulties and dangers he returned to Egypt at the end of the
year.  In April 1888 the Italian forces, numbering over 20,000
men, came into touch with the Abyssinian army; but negotiations
took the place of fighting, with the result that both forces
retired, the Italians only leaving some 5000 troops in
Eritrea, as their colony was now called. Meanwhile John had
not been idle with regard to the dervishes, who had in the
meantime become masters of the Egyptian Sudan.  Although he
had set his troops in motion too late to relieve Kassala,
Ras Alula, his chief general, had succeeded in inflicting
a handsome defeat on Osman Digna at Kufit in September
1885.  Fighting between the dervishes and the Abyssinians
continued, and in August 1887 the dervishes entered and
sacked Gondar.  After some delay, King John took the field
in force against the enemy, who were still harassing the
north-west of his territory.  A great battle ensued at
Gallabat, in which the dervishes, under Zeki Tumal, were
beaten.  But a stray bullet struck the king, and the Abyssinians
decided to retire. The king died during the night, and his
body fell into the hands of the enemy (9th March 1889).

Menelek emperor.

(24) Immediately the news of John's death reached Menelek,
he proclaimed himself emperor, and received the submission
of Gondar, Gojam and several other provinces.  In common
with other northern princes, Mangasha, reputed son and heir
of King John, with the yellow-eyed Ras Alula,6 refused to
acknowledge the sovereignty of Menelek; but, on the latter
marching against them in the following January with a large
army, they submitted.  As it happened, Count Antonelli
was with Menelek when he claimed the throne, and promptly
concluded (2nd of May 1889) with him on behalf of Italy a
friendly treaty, to be known hereafter as the famous Uccialli
treaty.  In consequence of this the Italians occupied Asmara,
made friends with Mangasha and received Ras Makonnen7,
Menelek's nephew, as his plenipotentiary in Italy.  Thus it
seemed as though hostilities between the two countries had
come to a definite end, and that peace was assured in the
land.  For the next three years the land was fairly quiet,
the chief political events being the convention (6th February
1891) between Italy and Abyssinia, protocols between Italy
and Great Britain (24th March and 15th April 1891) and a
proclamation by Menelek (10th April 1891), all on the subject of
boundaries.  As, however, the Italians became more and more
friendly with Mangasha and Tigre the apprehensions of Menelek
increased, till at last, in February 1893, he wrote denouncing
the Uccialli treaty, which differed in the Italian and Amharic
versions.  According to the former, the negus was bound
to make use of Italy as a channel for communicating with
other powers, whereas the Amharic version left it optional.
Meanwhile the dervishes were threatening Eritrea.  A fine
action by Colonel Arimondi gained Agordat for Italy (21st
December 1893), and a brilliant march by Colonel Baratieri
resulted in the acquisition of Kassala (17th July 1894).

On his return Baratieri found that Mangasha was intriguing
with the dervishes, and had actually crossed the frontier
with a large army.  At Koatit and Senafe (13th to 15th
January 1895) Mangasha was met and heavily defeated by
Baratieri, who occupied Adrigat in March.  But as the year
wore on the Italian commander pushed his forces unsupported
too far to the south. Menelek was advancing with a large
army in national support of Mangasha, and the subsequent
reverses at Amba Alagi (7th December 1895) and Macalle
(23rd January 1896) forced the Italians to fall back.

Battle of Adowa. Reinforcements of many thousands were
meanwhile arriving at Massawa, and in February Baratieri took
the field at the head of over 13,000 men.  Menelek's army,
amounting to about 90,000, had during this time advanced,
and was occupying a strong position at Abba Garima, near
Adua (or Adowa).  Here Baratieri attacked him on the 1st
of March, but the difficulties of the country were great,
and one of the four Italian brigades had pushed too far
forward.  This brigade was attacked by overwhelming numbers,
and on the remaining brigades advancing in support, they were
successively cut to pieces by the encircling masses of the
enemy.  The Italians lost over 4500 white and 2000 native
troops killed and wounded, and over 2500 prisoners, of which
1600 were white, whilst the Abyssinians owned to a loss of over
3000.  General Baldissera advanced with a large body of
reinforcements to avenge this defeat, but the Abyssinians,
desperately short of supplies, had already retired, and beyond
the peaceful relief of Adrigat no further operations took
place.  It may here be remarked that the white prisoners
taken by Menelek were exceedingly well treated by him, and
that he behaved throughout the struggle with Italy with
the greatest humanity and dignity.  On the 26th of October
following a provisional treaty of peace was concluded at
Adis Ababa, annulling the treaty of Uccialli and recognizing
the absolute independence of Abyssinia.  This treaty was
ratified, and followed by other treaties and agreements
defining the Eritrean-Abyssinian and the Abyssinian-Italian
Somaliland frontiers (see ITALY, History, and SOMALILAND, Italian

Menelek as independent monarch.

(25) The war, so disastrous to Italy, attracted the attention of
all Europe to Abyssinia and its monarch, and numerous
missions, two Russian, three French and one British, were
despatched to the country, and hospitably received by
Menelek.  The British one, under Mr (afterwards Sir) Rennell
Rodd, concluded a friendly treaty with Abyssinia (15th
of May 1897), but did not, except in the direction of
Somaliland, touch on frontier questions, which for several
years continued a subject of discussion.  During the same
year (1897) a small French expedition under Messrs Clochette
and de Bonchamps endeavoured to reach the Nile, but, after
surmounting many difficulties, stuck in the marshes of the
Upper Sobat, and was obliged to return.  Another expedition
of Abyssinians, under Dejaj Tasamma and accompanied by three
Europeans---Faivre (French), Potter (Swiss) and Artomonov
(Russian)--started early in 1898, and reached the Nile at the
Sobat mouth in June, a few days only before Major Marchand
and his gallant companions arrived on the scene. But no
contact was made, and the expedition returned to Abyssinia.

In the same year Menelek proceeded northwards with a large
army for the purpose of chastising Mangasha, who was again
rebelling against his authority.  After some trifling fighting
Mangasha submitted, and Ras Makonnen despatched a force
to subdue Beni Shangul, the chief of which gold country,
Wad Tur el Guri, was showing signs of disaffection.  This
effected, the Abyssinians almost came into contact with the
Egyptian troops sent up the Blue Nile (after the occupation
of Khartum) to Famaka and towards Gallabat; but as both
sides were anxious to avoid a collision over this latter
town, no hostile results ensued.  An excellent understanding
was, in fact, established between these two contiguous
countries, in spite of occasional disturbances by bandits
on the frontier.  On this frontier question, a treaty
was concluded on the 15th of May 1902 between England and
Abyssinia for the delimitation of the Sudan-Abyssinian
frontier.  Menelek, in addition, agreed not to obstruct the
waters of Lake Tsana, the Blue Nile or the Sobat, so as not
to interfere with the Nile irrigation question, and he also
agreed to give a concession, if such should be required,
for the construction of a British railway through his
dominions, to connect the Sudan with Uganda.  A combined
British-Abyssinian expedition (Mr A. E. Butter's) was despatched
in 1901 to propose and survey a boundary between Abyssinia
on the one side and British East Africa and Uganda on the
other; and the report of the expedition was made public by
the British government in November 1904.  It was followed
in 1908 by an agreement defining the frontiers concerned.

Co-operation with Britain against the Somali mullah.

(26) In 1899 the rebellion of the so-called ``mad'' mullah
(Hajji Mahommed Abdullah) began on the borders of British
Somaliland.  An Abyssinian expedition was,  at Great
Britain's request, sent against the mullah,  but without much
effect.  In the spring and  summer of 1901 a fresh expedition
from Harrar was  undertaken against the mullah, who was
laying waste  the Ogaden country.  Two British officers
accompanied this force, which was to co-operate with British
troops advancing from Somaliland; but little was achieved
by the Abyssinians, and after undergoing considerable
privations and losses, and harassing the country generally,
including that of some friendly tribes, it returned to
Harrar.  During the 1902-3 campaign of General (Sir) W. H.
Manning, Menelek provided a force of 5000 to co-operate with
the British and to occupy the Webi Shebeli and south-western
parts of the Hand.  This time the Abyssinians were more
successful, and beat the rebels in a pitched fight; but
the difficulties of the country again precluded effective
co-operation.  During General Egerton's campaign (1903-4)
yet another force of 5000 Abyssinians was despatched towards
Somaliland. Accompanied by a few British officers, it worked
its way southward, but did not contribute much towards the
final solution. In any case, however, it is significant
that the Abyssinians have repeatedly been willing to
co-operate with the British away from their own country.

Growth of European influence. Regarding the question of
railways, the first concession for a railway from the coast
at Jibuti (French Somaliland) to the interior was granted
hy Menelek to a French company in 1894.  The company having
met with numberless difficulties and financial troubles, the
French government, on the extinction of the company's funds,
came to the rescue and provided money for the construction.
(In the alternative British capitalists interested in the
company would have obtained control of the line.) The French
government's help enabled the railway to be completed to
Dire Dawa, 28 m. from Harrar, by the last day of 1902.
Difficulties arose over the continuation of the railway to
Adis Ababa and beyond, and the proposed internationalization
of the line.  These difficulties, which hindered the work
of construction for years, were composed (so far as the
European Powers interested were concerned) in 1906.  By the
terms of an Anglo-French-Italian agreement, signed in London
on the 13th of December of that year, it was decided that
the French company should fund the railway as far as Adis
Ababa, while railway construction west of that place should
be under British auspices, with the stipulation that any
railway connecting Italy's possessions on the Red Sea with
its Somaliland protectorate should be built under Italian
auspices.  A British, an Italian and an Abyssinian representative
were to be appointed to the board of the French company, and a
French director to the board of any British or Italian company
formed.  Absolute equality of treatment on the railway and
at Jibuti was guaranteed to the commerce of all the Powers.

Meanwhile the country slowly developed in parts and opened
out cautiously to European influences.  Most of the Powers
appointed representatives at Menelek's capital--the British
minister-plenipotentiary and consul-general, Lieut.-Colonel
Sir J. L. Harrington, having been appointed shortly after
the British mission in 1897.  In December 1903 an American
mission visited Adis Ababa, and a commercial treaty between
the United States and Abyssinia was signed.  A German
mission visited the country early in 1905 and also concluded
a treaty of commerce with the negus.  Later in the year a
German minister was appointed to the court of the emperor.

After 1897 British influence in Abyssinia, owing largely no
doubt to the conquest of the Sudan, the destruction of the
dervish power and the result of the Fashoda incident, was
sensibly on the increase.  Of the remaining powers France
occupied the most important position in the country.  Ras
Makonnen, the most capable and civilized of Menelek's probable
successors, died in March 1906, and Mangasha died later in
the same year; the question of the succession therefore
opened up the possibility that, in spite of recent civilizing
influences, Abyssinia might still relapse in the future
into its old state of conflict.  The Anglo-French-Italian
agreement of December 1906 contained provisions in view of
this contingency.  The preamble of the document declared
that it was the common interest of the three Powers ``to
maintain intact the integrity of Ethiopia,'' and Article
I. provided for their co-operation in maintaining ``the
political and territorial status quo in Ethiopia.'' Should,
however, the status quo be disturbed, the powers were to
concert to safeguard their special interests.  The terms
of the agreement were settled in July 1906, and its text
forthwith communicated to the negus.  After considerable
hesitation Menelek sent, early in December, a note to the
powers, in which, after thanking them for their intentions,
he stipulated that the agreement should not in any way limit
his own sovereign rights. In June 1908, by the nomination of
his grandson, Lij Yasu (b. 1896), as his heir, the emperor
endeavoured to end the rivalry between various princes
claiming the succession to the throne. (See MENELEK.) A
convention with Italy, concluded in the same year, settled
the frontier questions outstanding with that country. (G.*)

BIBLIOGRAPHY.--For general information see A. B. Wylde's
Modern Abyssinia (London, 1901), a volume giving the result
of many years' acquaintance with the country and people;
Voyage en Abyssinie . . . 1839-43, par une commission
scientifique, by Th. Lefebvre and others (6 vols. and atlas, 3
vols., Paris, 1845--54); Elisee Reclus, Nouvelle geographie
universelle, vol. x. chap. v. (Paris, 1885).  For latest
geographical and kindred information consult the Geographical
Journal (London), especially ``A Journey through Abyssinia,''
vol. xv. (1900), and ``Exploration in the Abai Basin,'' vol.
xxvii. (1906), both by H. Weld Blundell, and ``From the
Somali Coast through S. Ethiopia to the Sudan,'' vol. xx.
(1902), by C. Neumann; Antoine d'Abbadie, Geographie de
l'Ethiopie (Paris, 1890).  The British parliamentary paper
Africa, No. 13 (1904), is a report on the survey of the
S.E. frontier by Capt.  P. Maud, R.E., and contains a valuable
map.  For geology, &c., see W. T. Blanford, Observations
on the Geology and Zoology of Abyssinia (London, 1870); C.
Futterer, ``Beitrage zur Kenntniss des Jura in Ost-Afrika,''
Zeit. Deutsch.  Geol.  Gesell. xlix. p. 568 (1897); C.
A. Raisin, ``Rocks from Southern Abyssinia,'' Quart.
Journ.  Geol.  Soc. vol. lix. pp. 292-306 (1903).

Among works by travellers describing the country are---James
Bruce's Travels to discover the Source of the Nile 1768-1773
(Edinburgh, 1813, 3rd ed., 8 vols.); The Highlands of
Aethiopia (3 vols., London, 1844), by Sir W. Cornwallis
Harris, dealing with the Danakil country, Harrar and
Shoa; Mansfield Parkyns, Life in Abyssinia; being notes
collected during three years' residence and travels (2nd
ed., London, 1868); Antoine d'Abbadie, Douze ans dans
La Haute Ethiopie (Paris, 1868); P. H. G. Powell-Cotton,
A Sporting Trip through Abyssinia (London, 1902); A.
Donaldson Smith, Through Unknown African Countries (London,
1897); M. S. Wellby, Twixt Sirdar and Menelik (London,
1901).  For history see -- A. M. H. J. Stokvis' Manuel
d'histoire, vol. i. pp. 439-46, and vol. ii. pp. lxxiv-v
(Leiden, 1888-89), which contains lists of the sovereigns
of Abyssinia, Shoa and Harrar, from the earliest times,
with brief notes.  Texts of treaties between Abyssinia and
the European Powers up to 1896 will be found in vol. i. of
Sir E. Hertslet's The Map of Africa by Treaty (London,
1896).  L. J. Morie's Histoire de l'Ethiopie: Tome ii,
``L'Abyssinie'' (Paris, 1904), is a comprehensive survey
(the views on modern affairs being coloured by a strong
anti-British bias). For more detailed historical study consult
C. Beccari's Notizia e Saggi di opere e documenti inediti
riguardanti la Storia di Etiopia durante i Secoli XVI.,
XVII. e XVIII. (Rome. 1903), a valuable guide to the period
indicated; E. Glaser, Die Abessinier in Arabien und Afrika
(Munich, 1895); The Portuguese Expedition to Abysinnia in
1541-1543 as narrated by Castanhoso (with the account of
Bermudez), translated and edited by R. S. Whiteway (London,
Hakluyt Society, 1902), which contains a bibliography; Futu
el-Habacha, a contemporary Arab chronicle of the wars of
Mahommed Gran, translated into French by Antoine d'Abbadie
and P. Paulitschke (Paris,1898); A Voyage to Abyssinia by
Father Jerome Lobo, from the French [by Samuel Johnson]
(London, 1735); Record of the Expedition to Abyssinia, 3
vols., an official history of the war of 1868, by Major T. J.
Holland and Capt.  H. Hosier (London, 1870); Hormuzd Rassam,
Narrative of the British Mission to Theodore [1865-1868]
(2 vols., London, 1869); Henry Blanc, A Narrative of
Captivity in Abyssinia (London, 1868 ), by one of Theodore's
prisoners; Sir Gerald H. Portal, My Mission to Abyssinia
(London, 1892), an account of the author's embassy to King
John in 1887; Count A. E. W. Gleichen, With the Mission to
Menelik, 1897 (London, 1898), containing the story of the
Rennell Rodd mission; R. P. Skinner, Abyssinia of To-Day
(London, 1906), a record of the first American mission to the
country; G. F. H. Berkeley, The Campaign of Adowa and the
Rise of Menelik (London, 1902).  Books dealing with missionary
enterprise are---Journal of a Three Years' Residence in
Abyssinia, by Bishop Samuel Gobat (London, 1834); J. L.
Krapf, Travels, Researches and Missionary Labours during
an 18 years' residence in Eastern Africa (London, 1860);
Cardinal G. Massaja, I miei Trentacinque anni di Missione
nell' Alta Etiopia (10 vols., Milan, 1886-1893).  Political
questions are referred to by T. Lennox Gilmour, Abyssinia:
the Ethiopian Railway and the Powers (London, 1906);
H. le Roux, Menelik et nous (Paris, 1901); Charles
Michel, La question d'Ethiopie (Paris, 1905). (F. R. C.)

1 Since Theodore's time Protestant missionary
work, except by natives, has been stopped.

2 Menelek means ``a second self.''

3 He was subsequently sent to school at Rugby, but
died in his nineteenth year, on the 14th of Nnvember
1879.  He was buried at St George's Chapel, Windsor.

4 A title variously translated.  A dejazmach (dejaj)
is a high official, ranking immediately belaw a ras,

5 The main object of this mission was to seek John's
assistance in evacuating the Egyptian garrisons in
the Sudan, which were threatened by the dervishes.

 6/0 Ras Alula died February 1897, aged about 52. He had
raised himself by his military talents from being a groom and
private soldier to the position of generalissimo of the army.

7 Ras of Harrar, which province had been conquered
and occupied by Menelek in January 1887.

ABYSSINIAN CHURCH. As the chronicle of Axum relates,
Christianity was adopted in Abyssinia in the 4th century.
About A.D. 330 Frumentius was made first bishop of Ethiopia by
Athanasius, patriarch of Alexandria.  Cedrenus and Nicephorus
err in dating Abyssinian Christianity from Justinian, c.
542. From Frumentius to the present day, with one break, the
Metropolitan (Abuna) has always been appointed from Egypt,
and, oddly enough, he is always a foreigner.  Little is
known of church history down to the period of Jesuit rule,
which broke the connexion with Egypt from about 1500 to
1633.  But the Abyssinians rejected the council of Chalcedon,
and still remain monophysites.  Union with the Coptic Church
(q.v.) continued after the Arab conquest in Egypt.  Abu
Sallh records (12th century) that the patriarch used always to
send letters twice a year to the kings of Abyssinia and Nubia,
till Al Hakim stopped the practice.  Cyril, 67th patriarch,
sent Severus as bishop, with orders to put down polygamy
and to enforce observance of canonical consecration for all
churches.  These examples show the close relations of the two
churches in the Middle Ages.  But early in the 16th century
the church was brought under the influence of a Portuguese
mission.  In 1439, in the reign of Zara Yakub, a religious
discussion between an Abyssinian, Abba Giorgis, and a Frank
had led to the despatch of an embassy from Abyssinia to the
Vatican; but the initiative in the Roman Catholic missions
to Abyssinia was taken, not by Rome, but by Portugal, as an
incident in the struggle with the Mussulmans for the command
of the trade route to India by the Red Sea. In 1507 Matthew,
or Matheus, an Armenian, had been sent as Abyssinian envoy
to Portugal to ask aid against the Mussulmans, and in 1520
an embassy under Dom Rodrigo de Lima landed in Abyssinia.
An interesting account of this mission, which remained
for several years, was written by Francisco Alvarez, the
chaplain.  Later, Ignatius Loyola wished to essay the task
of conversion, but was forbidden.  Instead, the pope sent
out Joao Nunez Barreto as patriarch of the East Indies,
with Andre de Oviedo as bishop; and from Goa envoys went to
Abyssinia, followed by Oviedo himself, to secure the king's
adherence to Rome.  After repeated failures some measure of
success was achieved, but not till 1604 did the king make
formal submission to the pope.  Then the people rebelled and
the king was slain.  Fresh Jesuit victories were followed
sooner or later by fresh revolt, and Roman rule hardly
triumphed when once for all it was overthrown.  In 1633 the
Jesuits were expelled and allegiance to Alexandria resumed.

There are many early rock-cut churches in Abyssinia, closely
resembling the Coptic.  After these, two main types of
architecture are found--one basilican, the other native.  The
cathedral at Axum is basilican, though the early basilicas
are nearly all in ruin -e.g. that at Adulis and that of
Martula Mariam in Gojam, rebuilt in the 16th century on
the ancient foundations. These examples show the influence
of those architects who, in the 6th century, built the
splendid basilicas at Sanaa and elsewhere in Arabia.  Of
native churches there are two forms---one square or oblong,
found in Tigre; the other circular, found in Amhara and
Shoa.  In both, the sanctuary is square and stands clear in the
centre.  An outer court, circular or rectangular, surrounds the
body of the church.  The square type may be due to basilican
influence, the circular is a mere adaptation of the native
hut: in both, the arrangements are obviously based on Jewish
tradition.  Church and outer court are usually thatched,
with wattled or mud-built walls adorned with rude frescoes.
The altar is a board on four wooden pillars having upon
it a small slab (tabut) of alabaster, marble, or shittim
wood, which forms its essential part.  At Martula Mariam,
the wooden altar overlaid with gold had two slabs of solid
gold, one 500, the other 800 ounces in weight.  The ark kept
at Axum is described as 2 feet high, covered with gold and
gems.  The liturgy was celebrated on it in the king's palace
at Christmas, Epiphany, Easter and Feast of the Cross.

Generally the Abyssinians agree with the Copts in ritual and
practice.  The LXX. version was translated into Geez, the
literary language, which is used for all services, though hardly
understood.  Saints and angels are highly revered, if not adored,
but graven images are forbidden.  Fasts are long and rigid.
Confession and absolution, strictly enforced, give great power
to the priesthood.  The clergy must marry, but once only.
Pilgrimage to Jerusalem is a religious duty and covers many sins.

AUTHORITIES.--Tellez, Historia de Ethiopia (Coimbra,
1660); Alvarez, translated and edited for the Hakluyt Soc.
by Lord Stanley of Aderley, under the title Narrative
of the Portuguese Embassy to Abyssinia (London, 1881);
Ludolphus, History of Ethiopia (London, 1684, and other
works); T. Wright, Christianity of Arabia (London, 1855);
C. T. Beke, ``Christianity among the Gallas,'' Brit.  Mag.
(London, 1847); J. C. Hotten, Abyssinia Described (London,
1868); ``Abyssinian Church Architecture,'' Royal Inst.
Brit.  Arch.  Transactions, 1869; Ibid. Journal, March
1897; Archaeologia, vol. xxxii.; J. A. de Graca Barreto,
Documenta historiam ecclesiae Habessinarum illustrantia
(Olivipone, 1879); E. F. Kromrei, Glaubenlehre und Gebrauche
der alteren Abessinischen Kirche (Leipzig, 1895); F. M. E.
Pereira, Vida do Abba Samuel (Lisbon, 1894); Idem, Vida do
Abba Daniel (Lisbon, 1897); Idem, Historia dos Martyres de
Nagran (Lisbon, 1899); Idem, Chronica de Susenyos (Lisbon,
text 1892, tr. and notes 1900); Idem, Martyrio de Abba Isaac
(Coimbra, 1909); Idem, Vida de S. Paulo de Thebas (Coimbra,
1904); Archdeacon Dowling, The Abyssinian Church, (London,
1909); and periodicals as under COPTIC CHURCH. (A. J. B.)

ACACIA, a genus of shrubs and trees belonging to the family
Leguminosae and the sub-family Mimoseae.  The small flowers
are arranged in rounded or elongated clusters.  The leaves are
compound pinnate in general (see fig.).  In some instances,
however, more especially in the Australian species, the leaflets
are suppressed and the leaf-stalks become vertically flattened,
and serve the purpose of leaves. The vertical position protects
the structure from the intense sunlight, as with their
edges towards the sky and earth they do not intercept light
so fully as ordinary horizontally placed leaves.  There
are about 450 species of acacia widely scattered over the
warmer regions of the globe. They abound in Australia and
Africa.  Various species yield gum.  True gum-arabic is the
product of Acacia Senegal, abundant in both east and west
tropical Africa. Acacia arabica is the gum-arabic tree of
India, but yields a gum inferior to the true gum-arabic.
An astringent medicine, called catechu (q.v.) or cutch,
is procured from several species, but more especially from
Acacia catechu, by boiling down the wood and evaporating
the solution so as to get an extract.  The bark of Acacia
arabica, under the name of babul or babool, is used
in Scinde for tanning. The bark of various Australian
species, known as wattles, is also very rich in tannin
and forms an important article of export. Such are Acacia
pycnantha, golden wattle, A. decurrens, tan wattle, and A.
dealbata, silver wattle.  The pods of Acacia nilotica,
under the name of neb-neb, and of other African species




Acacia Senegal, flowering branch, natural size (after A. Meyer
                      and Schumann).
From Strasburger's Lehrbuch der Botanik.

is rich in tannin and used by tanners.  The seeds of Acacia
niopo are roasted and used as snuff in South America.
Some species afford valuable timber; such are Acacia
melanoxylon, black wood of Australia, which attains a great
size; its wood is used for furniture, and takes a high
polish; and Acacia homalophylla (also Australian), myall
wood, which yields a fragrant timber, used for ornamental
purposes. Acacia formosa supplies the valuable Cuba timber
called sabicu. Acacia seyal is supposed to be the shittah
tree of the Bible, which supplied shittim-wood. Acacia
heterophylla, from Mauritius and Bourbon, and Acacia koa
from the Sandwich Islands are also good timber trees.  The
plants often bear spines, especially those growing in arid
districts in Australia or tropical and South Africa.  These
sometimes represent branches which have become short, hard
and pungent, or sometimes leaf-stipules. Acacia armata is
the kangaroo-thorn of Australia, A. giraffae, the African
camelthorn.  In the Central American Acacia sphaerocephala
(bullthorn acacia) and A. spadicigera, the large thorn-like
stipules are hollow and afford shelter for ants, which feed on
a secretion of honey on the leaf-stalk and curious food-bodies
at the tips of the leaflets; in return they protect the
plant against leaf-cutting insects.  In common language the
term Acacia is often applied to species of the genus Robinia
(q.v.) which belongs also to the Leguminous family, but
is placed in a different section. Robinia Pseud-acacia,
or false acacia, is cultivated in the milder parts of
Britain, and forms a large tree, with beautiful pea-like
blossoms. The tree is sometimes called the locust tree.

ACADEMIES. The word ``academy'' is derived from ``the
olive grove of Academe, Plato's retirement,'' the birthplace
of the Academic school of philosophy (see under ACADEMY,
GREEK).  The schools of Athens after the model of the
Academy continued to flourish almost without a break for
nine centuries till they were abolished by a decree of
Justinian.  It was not without significance in tracing the
history of the word that Cicero gave the name to his villa near
Puteoli.  It was there that he entertained his cultured
friends and held the symposia which he afterwards elaborated in
Academic Questions and other philosophic and moral dialogues.

``Academy,'' in its modern acceptation, may be defined
as a society or corporate body having for its object the
cultivation and promotion of literature, of science and
of art, either severally or in combination, undertaken
for the pure love of these pursuits, with no interested
motive.  Modern academies, moreover, have, almost without
exception, some form of public recognition; they are either
founded or endowed, or subsidized, or at least patronized,
by the sovereign of the state.  The term ``academy'' is
very loosely used in modern times; and, in essentials, other
bodies with the title of ``society'' or ``college,'' or even
``school,'' often embody the same idea; we are only concerned
here, however, with those which, bearing the title of academy,
are of historical importance in their various spheres.

Early History.---The first academy, as thus defined,
though it might with equal justice claim to be the first
of universities, was the museum of Alexandria founded at
the beginning of the 3rd century B.C. by the first of
the Ptolemies.  There all the sciences then known were
pursued, and the most learned men of Greece and of the
East gathered beneath its spacious porticos.  Here, too,
was the nucleus of the famous library of Alexandria.

Passing over the state institute for the promotion of
science founded at Constantinople by Caesar Bardas in the
9th century, and the various academies established by the
Moors at Granada, at Corduba and as far east as Samarkand,
we come to the academy over which Alcuin presided, a branch
of the School of the Palace established by Charlemagne in
782. This academy was the prototype of the learned coteries
of Paris which Moliere afterwards satirized.  It took
all knowledge for its province; it included the learned
priest and the prince who could not write his own name,
and it sought to solve all problems by witty definitions.

The David of Alcuin's academy (such was the name that the
emperor assumed) found no successors or imitators, and the
tradition of an Oxford academy of Alfred the Great has been
proved to rest on a forgery.  The academy of arts founded
at Florence in 1270 by Brunetto Latini was short-lived and
has left no memories, and modern literary academies may
be said to trace their lineage in direct descent from the
troubadours of the early 14th century.  The first Floral
Games were held at Toulouse in May 1324, at the summons of a
gild of troubadours, who invited ``honourable lords, friends
and companions who possess the science whence spring joy,
pleasure, good sense, merit and politeness'' to assemble
in their garden of the ``gay science'' and recite their
works.  The prize, a golden violet, was awarded to Vidal
de Castelnaudary for a poem to the glory of the Virgin.  In
spite of the English invasion and other adversities the Floral
Games survived till, about the year 1500, their permanence
was secured by the munificent bequest of Clemence Isaure,
a rich lady of Toulouse.  In 1694 the Academie des Jeux
Floraux was constituted an academy by letters patent of
Louis XIV.; its statutes were reformed and the number Of
members raised to 36. Suppressed during the Revolution it was
revived in 1806, and still continues to award amaranths of
gold and sliver lilies, for which there is keen competition.

Provence led the way, but Italy of the Renaissance is the
soil in which academies most grew and flourished.  The
Accademia Pontaniana, to give it its subsequent title,
was founded at Florence in 1433 by Antonio Beccadelli of
Palermo and fostered by Laurentius Valla.  Far more famous
was the Accademia Platonica, founded c. 1442 by Cosimo
de' Medici, which numbered among its members Marsilio
Ficino, Pico della Mirandola, Machiavelli and Angelo
Poliziano.  It was, as the name implies, chiefly occupied
with Plato, but it added to its objects the study of Dante
and the purification of the Italian language, and though
it lived for barely half a century, yet its influence as a
model for similar learned societies was great and lasting.

Modern Academies.--Academies have played an important part
in the revival of learning and in the birth of scientific
inquiry.  They mark an age of aristocracies when letters
were the distinction of the few and when science had not
been differentiated into distinct branches, each with its
own specialists. Their interest is mainly historical, and
it cannot be maintained that at the present day they have
much direct influence on the advancement of learning either
by way of research or of publication.  For example, the
standard dictionaries of France, Germany and England are
the work, not of academies, but of individual scholars, of
Littre, Grimm and Murray.  Matthew Arnold's plea for an
English academy of letters to save his countrymen from
the note of vulgarity and provinciality has met with no
response.  Academies have been supplanted, socially by the
modern club, and intellectually by societies devoted to
special branches of science.  Those that survive from the past
serve, like the Heralds' College, to set an official stamp
on literary and scientific merit.  The principal academies
of Europe, past and present, may be dealt with in various
classes, according to the subjects to which they are devoted.

I. SCIENTIFIC ACADEMIES Austria.---The Kaiserliche Akademie
der Wissenschaften at Vienna, originally projected by Leibnitz,
was founded by the emperor Ferdinand I. in 1846, and has two
classes---mathematics and natural science, and history and philology.

Belgium and the Netherlands.-A literary society was founded at
Brussels in 1769 by Count Cobenzl, the prime minister of Maria
Theresa, which after various changes of name and constitution
became in 1816 the Academie imperiale et royale des
sciences et belles-lettres, under the patronage of William
I. of the Netherlands.  It has devoted itself principally to
natural history and antiquities.  The Royal Institute of the
Low Countries was founded in 1808 by King Louis Bonaparte.
It was replaced in 1851 by the Royal Academy of Sciences at
Amsterdam, to which in 1856 a literary section was added.

Denmark.---The Kongelige danske videnskabernes selskab
(Royal Academy of Sciences) at Copenhagen owes its origin
to Christian VI., who in 1742 invited six Danish numismatists
to arrange his cabinet of medals.  Historians and antiquaries
were called in to assist at the sittings, and the commission
developed into a sort of learned club.  The king took it
under his protection, enlarged its scope by the addition
of natural history, physics and mathematics, and in 1743
constituted it a royal academy with an endowment fund.

France.---The old Academie des sciences had the same
origin as the more celebrated Academie francaise. A
number of men of science had for some thirty years met
together, first at the house of P. Marsenne, then at that of
Montmort, a member of the Council of State, afterwards at
that of Melchisedec Thevenot, the learned traveller.  It
included Descartes, Gassendi, Blaise and Etienne Pascal.
Hobbes, the author of Leviathan, was presented to it during
his visit to Paris in 1640.  Colbert conceived the idea of
giving an official status to this learned club. A number of
chemists, physicians, anatomists and eminent mathematicians,
among whom were Christian Huyghens and Bernard Frenicle
de Bessy (1605-1675), the author of a famous treatise on
magic squares, were chosen to form the nucleus of the new
society.  Pensions were granted by Louis XIV. to each of
the members, and a fund for instruments and experiment was
placed at their disposal.  They began their session on the
22nd of December 1666 in the Royal Library, meeting twice a
week--the mathematicians on Wednesdays, the physicists on
Saturdays.  Duhamel was appointed permanent secretary, a post
he owed more to his polished Latinity than to his scientific
attainments, all the proceedings of the society being recorded
in Latin, and C. A. Couplet was made treasurer.  At first the
academy was rather a laboratory and observatory than an academy
proper.  Experiments were undertaken in common and results
discussed.  Several foreign savants, in particular the
Danish astronomer Roemer, joined the society, attracted hy the
liberality of the Grand Monarque; and the German physician and
geometer Tschirnhausen and Sir Isaac Newton were made foreign
associates.  The death of Colbert, who was succeeded by
Louvois, exercised a disastrous effect on the fortunes of the
academy.  The labours of the academicians were diverted
from the pursuit of pure science to such works as the
construction of fountains and cascades at Versailles, and
the mathematicians were employed to calculate the odds of
the games of lansquenet and basset.  In 1699 the academy was
reconstituted by Louis Phelypeaux, comte de Pontchartrain,
under whose department as secretary of state the academies
came.  By its new constitution it consisted of twenty-five
members, ten honorary, men of high rank interested in
science, and fifteen pensionaries, who were the working
members.  Of these three were geometricians, three
astronomers, three mechanicians, three anatomists, and three
chemists.  Each of these three had two associates, and,
besides, each pensionary had the privilege of naming a
pupil.  There were eight foreign and four free associates.
The officers were, a president and a vice-president, named by
the king from among the honorary members, and a secretary and
treasurer chosen from the pensionaries, who held office for
life.  Fontenelle, a man of wit, and rather a popularizer of
science than an original investigator, succeeded Duhamel as
secretary.  The constitution was purely aristocratical,
differing in that respect from that of the French Academy, in
which the principle of equality among the members was never
violated. Science was not yet strong enough to dispense with
the patronage of the great.  The two leading spirits of the
academy at this period were Clairault and Reaumur.  To trace
the subsequent fortunes of this academy would be to write
the history of the rise and progress of science in France.
It has reckoned among its members Laplace, Buffon, Lagrange,
D'Alembert, Lavoisier, and Jussieu, the father of modern
botany.  On the 21st of December 1792 it met for the last time,
and it was suppressed with its sister academies by the act of
the Convention on the 8th of April 1793.  Some of its members
were guillotined, some were imprisoned, more were reduced to
poverty.  The aristocracy of talent was almost as much
detested and persecuted by the Revolution as that of rank.

In 1795 the Convention decided on founding an Institut
National which was to replace all the academies, and its first
class corresponded closely to the old academy of sciences.
In 1816 the Academie des sciences was reconstituted as a
branch of the Institute.  The new academy has reckoned among
its members, besides many other brilliant men, Carnot the
engineer, the physicists Fresnel, Ampere, Arago, Blot, the
chemists Gay-Lussac and Thenard, the zoologists G. Cuvier
and the two Geoffroy Saint-Hilaires.  In France there were
also considerable academies in most of the large towns.
Montpellier, for example, had a royal academy of sciences,
founded in 1706 by Louis XIV., on nearly the same footing as
that of Paris, of which, indeed, it was in some measure the
counterpart.  It was reconstituted in 1847, and organized under
three sections--medicine, science and letters.  Toulouse also
has an academy, founded in 1640, under the name of Soeiete
de lanternistes; and there were analogous institutions
at Nimes, Arles, Lyons, Dijon, Bordeaux and elsewhere.

Germany.---The Collegium Curiosum was a scientific society,
founded by J. C. Sturm, professor of mathematics and natural
philosophy in the university of Altorf, in Franconia, in 1672, on
the plan of the Accademia del Cimento. It originally consisted
of twenty members, and continued to flourish long after the
death of its founder.  The early labours of the society were
devoted to the repetition (under varied conditions) of the most
notable experiments of the day, or to the discussion of the
results.  Two volumes (1676-1685) of proceedings were published by
Sturm.  The former, Collegium Experimentale sive Curiosum,
begins with an account of the diving-bell, ``a new invention'';
next follow chapters on the camera obscura, the Torricellian
experiment, the air-pump, microscope, telescope, &c.

The Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin, if judged
by the work it has produced, holds the first place in
Germany.  Its origin was the Societas Regia Scientiarum,
constituted in 1700 by Frederick I. on the comprehensive
plan of Leibnitz, who was its first president.  Hampered and
restricted under Frederick William I., it was reorganized
under Frederick II. on the French model furnished by
Maupertuis, and received its present constitution in
1812.  It is divided into two classes and four sections
--physical and mathematical, philosophical and historical.
Each section has a permanent secretary with a salary of 1200
marks, and each of the 50 regular members is paid 600 marks a
year.  Among the contributors to its transactions (first
volume published in 1710), to name only the dead, we
find Immanuel Bekker, Bockling, Bernoulli, F. Bopp, P.
Buttmann, Encke (of comet fame), L. Euler, the brothers
Grimm, the two Humboldts, Lachmann, Lagrange, Leibnitz, T.
Mommsen, J. Muller, G. Niebuhr, C. Ritter (the geographer),
Savigny and Zumpt. Frederick II. presented in 1768 A
Dissertation on Ennui. To the Berlin Academy we owe the
Corpus Inscriptionum Graecarum, the Corpus Inscriptionum
Latinarum, and the Monumenta Germaniae Historica.

The Akademie der Wissenschaflen zu Mannheim was founded
by the elector Palatine in 1755.  Since 1780 it has
devoted itself specially to meteorology, and has published
valuable observations under the title of Ephemerides
Societatis Meteorologicae Theodoro-Palatinae.

The Bavarian Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Munchen was
founded in 1759.  It is distinguished from other academies
by the part it has played in national education.  Maximilian
Joseph, the enlightened elector (afterwards king) of
Bavaria, induced the government to hand over to it the
organization and superintendence of public instruction,
and this work was carried out by Privy-councillor Jacobi,
the president of the academy.  In recent years the academy
has specially occupied itself with natural history.

The Konigliche Akademie der Wissenschaften, at Erfurt,
which dates from 1754 and devotes itself to applied science,
and the Hessian academy of sciences at Giessen, which
publishes medical transactions, also deserve mention.

Great Britain and Ireland.--- In 1616 a scheme for founding
a royal academy was started by Edmund Bolton, an eminent
scholar and antiquary, who in his petition to King James I.,
which was supported by George Villiers, marquis of Buckingham,
proposed that the title of the academy should be ``King James,
his Academe or College of honour.'' A list of the proposed
original members is still extant, and includes the names of
George Chapman, Michael Drayton, Ben Jonson, John Selden,
Sir Kenelm Digby and Sir Henry Wotton.  The constitution is
of interest as reflecting the mind of the learned king.  The
academy was to consist of three classes,---tutelaries, who
were to be Knights of the Garter, auxiliaries, all noblemen
or ministers of state, and the essentials, ``called from out
of the most famous lay gentlemen of England, and either living
in the light of things, or without any title of profession
or art of life for lucre.'' Among other duties to be assigned
to this academy was the licensing of all books other than
theological.  The death of King James put an end to the
undertaking.  In 1635 a second attempt to found an academy
was made under the patronage of Charles I., with the title of
``Minerva's Museum,'' for the instruction of young noblemen
in the liberal arts and sciences, but the project was soon
dropped. (For the ``British Academy'' see III. below.) About
1645 the more ardent followers of Bacon used to meet, some
in London, some at Oxford, for the discussion of subjects
connected with experimental science.  This was the original of
the Royal Society (q.v.), which received its charter in 1662.

A society was formed in Dublin, similar to the Royal Society
in London, as early as 1683; but the distracted state of
the country proved unpropitious to the cultivation of
philosophy and literature.  The Royal Irish Academy grew
from a society established in Dublin about 1782 by a number
of gentlemen, most of whom belonged to the university.  They
held weekly meetings and read, in turn, essays on various
subjects.  They professed to unite the advancement of
science with the history of mankind and polite literature.
The first volume of transactions appeared in 1788.

Hungary.--The Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia (Hungarian
Academy of Sciences) was founded in 1825 by Count Stephen
Szechenyi for the encouragement of the study of the
Hungarian Ianguage and the various sciences.  It has about
300 members and a fine building in Budapest containing a
picture gallery and housing various national collections.

Italy.--The Academia Secretorum Natarae was founded
at Naples in 1560 by Giambattista della Porta.  It arose
like the French Academy from a little club of friends
who met at della Porta's house and called themselves
the Otiosi. The condition of membership was to have
made some discovery in natural science.  Della Porta was
suspected of practising the black arts and summoned to
Rome to justify himself before the papal court.  He was
acquitted by Paul V., but commanded to close his academy.

The Accademia dei Lincei, to which della Porta was admitted
when at Rome, and of which he became the chief ornament,
had been founded in 1603 by Federigo Cesi, the marchese di
Monticelli.  Galileo and Colonna were among its earliest
members. Its device was a lynx with upturned eyes, tearing a
Cerberus with its claws.  As a monument the Lincei have left
the magnificent edition of Fernandez de Oviedo's Natural
History of Mexico (Rome, 1651, fol.), printed at the
expense of the founder and elaborately annotated by the
members.  This academy was resuscitated in 1870 under the
title of Reale Accademia dei Lincei, with a literary
as well as a scientific side, endowed in 1878 by King
Humbert; and in 1883 it received official recognition from
the Italian government, being lodged in the Corsini palace,
whose owner made over to it his library and collections.

The Accademia del Cimento was founded at Florence in 1657 by
Leopold de' Medici, brother of the grand duke Ferdinand II.,
at the instigation of Vincenzo Viviani, the geometrician.
It was an academy of experiment, a deliberate protest against
the deductive science of the quadrivium.  Its founder left
it when he was made a cardinal, and it lasted only ten
years, but the grand folio published in Italian (afterwards
translated into Latin) in 1667 is a landmark in the history of
science.  It contains experiments on the pressure of the
air (Torricelli and Borelli were among its members), on
the incompressibility of water and on universal gravity.

Science in Italy is now represented by the Reale Accademia
delle Scienze (Royal Academy of Sciences), founded in 1757
as a private society, and incorporated under its present name
by royal warrant in 1783.  It consists of 40 full members,
who must be residents of Turin, 20 non-resident, and 20
foreign members.  It publishes a yearly volume of proceedings
and awards prizes to learned works.  There are, besides,
royal academies of science at Naples, Lucca and Palermo.

Portugal.--The Academia Real das Sciencias (Royal
Academy of Sciences) at Lisbon dates from 1779.  It was
reorganized in 1851 and since then has been chiefly occupied
in the publication of Portugaliae Monumenta Historica.

Russia.--The Academie Imperiale des sciences de
Saint-Petersbourg, Imperatorskaya Akademiya nauk, was projected
by Peter the Great.  The advice of Wolff and Leibnitz was
sought, and several learned foreigners were invited to become
members. Peter himself drew the plan, and signed it on the
10th of February 1724; but his sudden death delayed its
fulfilment.  On the 21st of December 1725, however, Catherine
I. established it according to his plan, and on the 27th
the society met for the first time.  On the 1st of August
1726, Catherine honoured the meeting with her presence, when
Professor G. B. Bilfinger, a German scientist, delivered an
oration upon the determination of magnetic variations and
longitude.  Shortly afterwards the empress settled a fund
of L. 4982 per annum for the support of the academy; and
15 eminent members were admitted and pensioned, under the
title of professors in the various branches of science and
literature.  The most distinguished of these were Nicholas and
Daniel Bernouilli, the two Delisles, Bilfinger, and Wolff.

During the short reign of Peter II. the salaries of members
were discontinued, and the academy neglected by the Court;
but it was again patronized by the empress Anne, who added a
seminary under the superintendence of the professors.  Both
institutions flourished for some time under the direction
of Baron Johann Albrecht Korin (1697--1766).  At the
accession of Elizabeth the original plan was enlarged and
improved; learned foreigners were drawn to St Petersburg;
and, what was considered a good omen for the literature of
Russia, two natives, Lomonosov and Rumovsky, men of genius
who had prosecuted their studies in foreign universities,
were enrolled among its members.  The annual income was
increased to L. 10,659, and sundry other advantages were
conferred upon the institution.  Catherine II. utilized
the academy for the advancement of national culture.  She
altered the court of directors greatly to the advantage
of the whole body, corrected many of its abuses, added to
its means, and infused a new vigour and spirit into its
researches.  By her recommendation the most intelligent
professors visited all the provinces of her vast dominions,
with most minute and ample instructions to investigate the
natural resources, conditions and requirements, and report
on the real state of the empire.  The result was that no
country at that time could boast, within so few years, such
a number of excellent official publications on its internal
state, its natural productions, its topography, geography and
history, and on the manners, customs and languages of the
different tribes that inhabited it, as came from the press
of this academy.  In its researches in Asiatic languages,
oriental customs and religions, it proved itself the worthy
rival of the Royal Asiatic Society in England.  The first
transactions, Commentarii Academiae Scientiarum Imperialis
Petropolitanae ad annum 1726, with a dedication to Peter
II., were published in 1728.  This was continued until
1747, when the transactions were called Novi Commentarii
Academiae, &c.; and in 1777, Acta Academiae Scientiarum
Imperialis Petropolitanae, with some alteration in the
arrangements and plan of the work.  The papers, hitherto
in Latin only, were now written indifferently in Latin or
in French, and a preface added, Partie Historique, which
contains an account of the society's meetings.  Of the
Commentaries, fourteen volumes were published: of the New
Commentaries (1750--1776) twenty.  Of the Acta Academiae
two volumes are printed every year.  In 1872 there was
published at St Petersburg in 2 vols., Tableau general des
matieres contenues dans les publieations de l'Academie
Imperiale des Sciences de St Petersbourg. The academy is
composed, as at first, of fifteen professors, besides the
president and director.  Each of the professors has a house
and an annual stipend of from L. 200 to L. 600.  Besides the
professors, there are four pensioned adjuncts, who are present
at the meetings of the society, and succeed to the first
vacancies. The buildings and apparatus of this academy are
on a vast scale. There is a fine library, of 36,000 books and
manuscripts; and an extensive museum, considerably augmented
by the collections made by Pallas, Gmelin, Guldenstadt
and other professors, during their expeditions through the
Russian empire.  The motto of the society is Paulatim.

Spain.---The Real Academia Espanola at Madrid (see
below) had a predecessor in the Academia Naturae curiosorum
(dating from 1657) modelled on that of Naples.  It was
reconstituted in 1847 after the model of the French academy.

Sweden.--The Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien owes
its institution to six persons of distinguished learning,
among whom was Linnaeus.  They met on the 2nd of June 1739,
and formed a private society, the Collegium Curiosorum;
and at the end of the year their first publication made
its appeamnce. As the meetings continued and the members
increased the society attracted the notice of the king; and
on the 31st of March 1741 it was incorporated as the Royal
Swedish Academy. Though under royal patronage and largely
endowed, it is, like the Royal Society in England, entirely
self-governed.  Each of the members resident at Stockholm
becomes in turn president, and continues in office for
three months.  The dissertations read at each meeting
are published in the Swedish language, quarterly, and
make an annual volume.  The first forty volumes, octavo,
completed in 1779, are called the Old Transactions.

United States of America.--The oldest scientific association
in the United States is the American Philosophical Society
Held at Philadelphia for Promoting Useful Knowledge.  It owed
its origin to Benjamin Franklin, who in 1743 published ``A
Proposal for Promoting Useful Knowledge among the British
Plantations in America,'' which was so favourably received
that in the same year the society was organized, with
Thomas Hopkinson (1709-1751) as president and Franklin as
secretary.  In 1769 it united with another scientific society
founded by Franklin, called the American Society Held at
Philadelphia for Promoting Useful Knowledge, and adopted its
present name, adding the descriptive phrase from the title
of the American Society, and elected Franklin president,
an office which he held until his death (1790).  The
American Philosophical Society is national in scope and is
exclusively scientific; its Transactions date from 1771, and
its Proceedings from 1838.  It has a hall in Philadelphia,
with meeting-rooms and a valuable library and collection
of interesting portraits and relics. David Rittenhouse was
its second and Thomas Jefferson was its third president.
In 1786 John Hyacinth de Magellan, of London, presented a
fund, the income of which was to supply a gold medal for
the author of the most important discovery ``relating to
navigation, astronomy or natural philosophy (mere natural
history excepted).'' An annual general meeting is held.

The American Academy of Arts and Sciences (Boston), the
second oldest scientific organization in the United States,
was chartered in Massachusetts in 1780 by some of the most
prominent men of that time.  James Bowdoin was its first
president, John Adams its second.  The Academy published
Memoirs beginning in 1785, and Proceedings from 1846.  The
Rumford Premium awarded through it for the most ``important
discovery or useful improvement on Heat, or on Light'' is
the income of $5000 given to the Academy by Count Rumford.

The National Academy of Sciences (1863) was incorporated
by Congress with the object that it ``shall, whenever called
upon by any department of the Government, investigate,
examine, experiment and report upon any subject of science
or art.'' Its membership was first limited to 50; after
the amendment of the act of incorporation in 1870 the limit
was placed at 100; and in 1907 it was prescribed that the
resident membership should not exceed 150 in number, that
not more than 10 members be elected in any one year, and
that the number of foreign associates be restricted to 50.
The Academy is divided into six committees: mathematics
and astronomy; physics and engineering; chemistry;
geology and palaeontology; biology; and anthropology.  It
gives several gold medals for meritorious researches and
discoveries.  It publishes scientific monographs (at the
expense of the Federal Government).  Its presidents have been
Alexander D. Bache, Joseph Henry, Wm. B. Rogers, Othuiel C.
Marsh, Wolcott Gibbs, Alexander Agassiz and Ira Remsen.

The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia was organized in
1812.  It has a large library, very rich in natural history,
and its museum, with nearly half a million specimens, is
particularly strong in conchology and ornithology.  The
society has published Journals since 1817, and Proceedings
since 1841; it also has published the American Journal
of Conchology. The American Entomological Society (in
1859-1867 the EntomoIogical Society of Philadelphia, and
since 1876 part of this academy) has published Proceedings
since 1861, and the Entomological news (a monthly).

There are also other scientific organizations like the American
Association for the Advancement of Science (chartered in 1874,
as a continuation of the American Association of Geologists,
founded in 1840 and becoming in 1842 the American Association
of Geologists and Naturalists), which publishes its proceedings
annually; the American Geographical Society (1852), with
headquarters in New Ynrk: the National Geographic Society
(1888), with headquarters in Washington, D.C.; the Geological
Society of America (1888), the American Ornithologists' Union
(1883), the American Society of naturalists (1883), the
Botanical Society of America (1893), the American Academy of
Medicine (1876); and local academies of science, or of special
sciences, in many of the larger cities.  The Smithsonian
Institution at Washington is treated in a separate article.

II. ACADEMIES OF BELLES LETTRES Belgium.-- Belgium
has always been famous for its literary societies.  The
little town of Diest boasts that it possessed a society
of poets in 1302, and the Catherinists of Alost date from
1107.  It is at least certain that numerous Chambers
of Rhetoric (so academies were then called) existed in
the first years of the rule of the house of Burgundy.

France.---The French Academy (l'Academie Francaise) was
established by order of the king in the year 1635, but in its
original form existed four or five years earlier.  About the
year 1629 certain literary friends in Paris agreed to meet
informally each week at the house of Valentin Courart, the
king's secretary. The conversation turned mostly on literary
topics; and when one of the number had finished some literary
work, he read it to the rest, and they gave their opinions upon
it.  The fame of these meetings, though the members were
bound to secrecy, reached the ears of Cardinal Richelieu,
who promised his protection and offered to incorporate the
society by letters patent.  Nearly all the members would have
preferred the charms of privacy, but, considering the risk
they would run in incurring the cardinal's displeasure, and
that by the letter of the law all meetings of any sort were
prohibited, they expressed their gratitude for the high honour
the cardinal thought fit to confer on them, proceeded at once
to organize their body, settle their laws and constitution,
appoint officers and choose a name.  Letters patent were
granted by the king on the 29th of January 1635.  The officers
consisted of a director and a chancellor, chosen by lot, and
a permanent secretary, chosen by vote.  They elected also a
publisher, not a member of the body.  The director presided
at the meetings, being considered as primus inter pares.
The chancellor kept the seals and sealed all the official
documents of the academy.  The cardinal was ex officio
protector.  The meetings were held weekly as before.

The object for which the academy was founded, as set forth
in its statutes, was the purification of the French language.
``The principal function of the academy shall be to labour with
all care and diligence to give certain rules to our language,
and to render it pure, eloquent and capable of treating the
arts and sciences'' (Art. 24). They proposed ``to cleanse
the language from the impurities it has contracted in the
mouths of the common people, from the jargon of the lawyers,
from the misusages of ignorant courtiers, and the abuses of
the pulpit'' (Letter of Academy to Cardinal Richelieu) .

The number of members was fixed at forty.  The original
members formed a nucleus of eight, and it was not till 1639
that the full number was completed.  Their first undertaking
consisted of essays written by the members in rotation.  To
judge by the titles and specimens which have come down to
us, these possessed no special originality or merit, but
resembled the epideixeis of the Greek rhetoricians.
Next, at the instance of Cardinal Richelieu, they undertook a
criticism of Corneille's Cid, the most popular work of the
day.  It was a rule of the academy that no work could be
criticized except at the author's request, and fear of
incurring the cardinal's displeasure wrung from Corneille
an unwilling consent.  The critique of the academy was
re-written several times before it met with the cardinal's
approbation.  After six months of elaboration, it was published
under the title, Sentiments de l'academie francaise sur le
Cid. This judgment did not satisfy Corneille, as a saying
attributed to him on the occasion shows. ``Horatius,'' he
said, referring to his last play, ``was condemned by the
Duumviri, but he was absolved by the people.'' But the crowning
labour of the academy, begun in 1639, was a dictionary of
the French language. By the twenty-sixth article of their
statutes, they were pledged to compose a dictionary, a
grammar, a treatise on rhetoric and one on poetry.  Jean
Chapelain, one of the original members and leading spirits of
the academy, pointed out that the dictionary would naturally
be the first of these works to be undertaken, and drew up
a plan of the work, which was to a great extent carried
out.  A catalogue was to be made of all the most approved
authors, prose and verse: these were to be distributed among
the members, and all approved words and phrases were to be
marked for incorporation in the dictionary.  For this they
resolved themselves into two committees, which sat on other
than the regular days.  C. F. de Vaugelas was appointed editor
in chief.  To remunerate him for his labours, he received
from the cardinal a pension of 2000 francs.  The first
edition of this dictionary appeared in 1694, the sixth and
last in 1835, since when complements have been added.

This old Academie francaise perished with the other
prerevolutionary academies in 1793, and it has little
but the name in common with the present academy, a
section of the Institute. That Jean Baptiste Suard,
the first perpetual secretary of the new, had been a
member of the old academy, is the one connecting link.

The chronicles of the Institute down to the end of 1895
have been given in full by the count de Franqueville in Le
premier siecle de l'Institut de France, and from it we
extract a few leading facts and dates.  Before the Revolution
there were in existence the following institutions--(1)
the Academie de poesie et de musique, founded by
Charles IX. in 1570 at the instigation of Baif, which
counted among its members Ronsard and most of the Pleiade;
(2) the Academie des inscriptions et medailles, founded
in 1701; (3) the Academie des inscriptions et belles
lettres; (4) the old Academie des sciences; (5) the
Academie de peinture et de sculpture, a school as
well as an academy; (6) the Academie d'architecture.

The object of the Convention in 1795 was to rebuild all the
institutions that the Revolution had shattered and to combine
them in an organic whole; in the words of the preamble:--``
Il y a pour toute la Republique un Institut national charge
de recueiller les deconvertes, de perfectionner les arts
et les sciences.'' As Renan has remarked, the Institute
embodied two ideas, one disputable, the other of undisputed
truth--that science and art are a state concern, and that
there is a solidarity between all branches of knowledge and
human activities.  The Institute was at first composed of
184 members resident in Paris and an equal number living
in other parts of France, with 24 foreign members, divided
into three classes, (1) physical and mathematical science,
(2) moral and political science, (3) literature and the fine
arts.  It held its first sitting on the 4th of April
1796.  Napoleon as first consul suppressed the second class,
as subversive of government, and reconstituted the other
classes as follows: (1) as before, (2) French language and
literature, (3) ancient history and literature, (4) fine
arts.  The class of moral and political science was restored
on the proposal of M. Guizot in 1832, and the present
Institute consists of the five classes named above.  Each
class or academy has its own special jurisdiction and work,
with special funds; but there is a general fund and a common
library, which, with other common affairs, are managed by a
committee of the Institute---two chosen from each academy,
with the secretaries.  Each member of the Institute receives
an annual allowance of 1200 francs, and the secretaries
of the different academies have a salary of 6000 francs.

The class of the Institute which deals with the language and
literature takes precedence, and is known as the Academie
francaise. There was at first no perpetual secretary, each
secretary of sections presiding in turn.  Shortly afterwards
J. B. Suard was elected to the post, and ever since the history
of the academy has been determined by the reigns of its
successive perpetual secretaries.  The secretary, to borrow
an epigram of Sainte-Beuve, both reigns and governs.
There have been in order: Suard (13 years), Francois Juste
Raynouard (9 years), Louis Simon Auger, Francois Andrieux,
Arnault, Villemain (34 years), Henri Joseph Patin, Charles
Camille Doucet (19 years), Gaston Boissier.  Under Raynouard
the academy ran a tilt against the abbe Delille and his
followers.  Under Auger it did battle with romanticism, ``a
new literary schism.'' Auger did not live to see the election
of Lamartine in 1829, and it needed ten more years for Victor
Hugo after many vain assaults to enter by the breach.  The
academy is professedly non-political. It accepted and even
welcomed in succession the empire, the restoration and the
reign of Louis Phillppe, and it tolerated the republic of
1848; but to the second empire it offered a passive resistance,
and no politician of the second empire, whatever his gifts as
an orator or a writer, obtained an armchair. The one seeming
exception, Emile Ollivier, confirms the rule. He was elected
on the eve of the Franco-German war, but his discours de
reception, a eulogy of the emperor, was deferred and never
delivered.  The Institute appears in the annual budget for a
grant of about 700,000 fr.  It has also large vested funds in
property, including the magnificent estate and library of
Chantilly bequeathed to it by the duc d'Aumale.  It awards
various prizes, of which the most considerable are the Montyon
prizes, each of 20,000 fr., one for the poor Frenchman who
has performed the most virtuous action during the year,
and one for the French author who has published the book
of most service to morality.  The conditions are liberally
interpreted; the first prize is divided among a number of
the deserving poor, and the second has been assigned for
lexicons to Moliere, Corneille and Madame de Sevigne.

One alteration in the methods of the French Academy has
to be chronicled: in 1869 it became the custom to discuss
the claims of the candidates at a preliminary meeting of
the members. In 1880, on the instance of the philosopher
Caro, supported by A. Dumas fils, and by the aged
Desire Nisard, it was decided to abandon this method.

A point of considerable interest is the degree in which,
since its foundation, the French Academy has or has not
represented the best literary life of France.  It appears
from an examination of the lists of members that a surprising
number of authors of the highest excellence have, from
one cause or another, escaped the honour of academic
``immortality.'' When the academy was founded in 1634, the
moment was not a very brilliant one in French letters.
Among the forty original members we find only ten who are
remembered in literary history; of these four may reasonably
be considered famous still--Balzac, Chapelain, Racan and
Voiture.  In that generation Scarron was never one of the
forty, nor do the names of Descartes, Malebranche or Pascal
occur; Descartes lived in Holland, Scarron was paralytic,
Pascal was best known as a mathematician--(his Lettres
provinciales was published anonymously)---and when his fame
was rising he retired to Port Royal, where he lived the
life of a recluse.  The duc de la Rochefoucauld declined the
honour from a proud modesty, and Rotrou died too soon to be
elected.  The one astounding omission of the 17th century,
however, is the name of Moliere, who was excluded by his
profession as an actor.1 On the other hand, the French Academy
was never more thoroughly representative of letters than
when Boileau, Corneille, La Fontaine, Racine, and Quinault
were all members. Of the great theologians of that and the
subsequent age, the Academy contained Bossuet, Flechier,
Fenelon, and Massillon, but not Bourdaloue.  La Bruyere
and Fontenelle were among the forty, but not Saint-Simon,
whose claims as a man of letters were unknown to his
contemporaries.  Early in the 18th century almost every
literary personage of eminence found his place naturally in the
Academy.  The only exceptions of importance were Vauvenargues,
who died too early for the honour, and two men of genius but
of dubious social position, Le Sage and the abbe Prevost
d'Exiles.  The approach of the Revolution affected gravely
the personnel of the Academy.  Montesquieu and Voltaire
belonged to it, but not Rousseau or Beaumarchais. Of the
Encyclopaedists, the French Academy opened its doors to
D'Alembert, Condorcet, Volney, Marmontel and La Harpe, but
not to Diderot, Rollin, Condillac, Helvetius or the Baron
d'Holbach.  Apparently the claims of Turgot and of Quesnay
did not appear to the Academy sufficient, since neither was
elected.  In the transitional period, when the social life
of Paris was distracted and the French Academy provisionally
closed, neither Andre Chenier nor Benjamin Constant nor
Joseph de Maistre became a member.  In the early years of the
19th century considerations of various kinds excluded from
the ranks of the forty the dissimilar names of Lamennais,
Prudhon, Comte and Beranger.  Critics of the French
Academy are fond of pointing out that neither Stendhal, nor
Balzac, nor Theophile Gautier, nor Flaubert, nor Zola
penetrated into the Mazarine Palace. It is not so often
remembered that writers so academic as Thierry and Michelet
and Quinet suffered the same exclusion.  In later times
neither Alphonse Daudet nor Edmond de Goncourt, neither Guy
de Maupassant nor Ferdinand Fabre, has been among the forty
immortals.  The non-election, after a long life of distinction,
of the scholar Fustel de Coulanges is less easy to account
for.  Verlaine, although a poet of genius, was of the
kind that no academy can ever be expected to recognize.

Concerning the influence of the French Academy on the
language and literature, the most opposite opinions have been
advanced.  On the one hand, it has been asserted that it
has corrected the judgment, purified the taste and formed
the language of French writers, and that to it we owe the
most striking characteristics of French literature, its
purity, delicacy and flexibility.  Thus Matthew Arnold,
in his Essay on the Literary Influence of Academies, has
pronounced a glowing panegyric on the French Academy as a
high court of letters, and a rallying-point for educated
opinion, as asserting the authority of a master in matters
of tone and taste.  To it he attributes in a great measure
that thoroughness, that openness of mind, that absence of
vulgarity which he finds everywhere in French literature;
and to the want of a similar institution in England he traces
that eccentricity, that provincial spirit, that coarseness
which, as he thinks, are barely compensated by English
genius.  Thus, too, Renan, one of its most distinguished
members, says that it is owing to the academy ``qu'on peut
tout dire sans appareil scholastique avec la langue des gens
du monde.'' ``Ah ne dites,'' he exclaims, ``qu'ils n'ont
rien fait, ces obscures beaux esprits dont la vie se passe
a instruire le proces des mots, a peser les syllables.
Ils ont fait un chef-d'oeuvre--la langue francaise.'' On the
other hand, its inherent defects have been well summed up by
P. Lanfrey in his Histoire de Napoleon: ``This institution
had never shown itself the enemy of despotism: Founded by
the monarchy and for the monarchy, eminently favourable to
the spirit of intrigue and favouritism, incapable of any
sustained or combined labour, a stranger to those great
works.pursued in common which legitimize and glorify the
existence of scientific bodies, occupied exclusively with
learned trifles, fatal to emulation, which it pretends to
stimulate, by the compromises and calculations to which it
subjects it, directed in everything by petty considerations,
and wasting all its energy in childish tournaments, in which
the flatteries that it showers on others are only a foretaste
of the compliments it expects in return for itself, the
French Academy seems to have received from its founders the
special mission to transform genius into bel esprit, and
it would be hard to introduce a man of talent whom it has
not demoralized. Drawn in spite of itself towards politics,
it alternately pursues and avoids them; but it is specially
attracted by the gossip of politics, and whenever it has
so far emancipated itself as to go into opposition, it does
so as the champion of ancient prejudices. If we examine its
influence on the national genius, we shall see that it has
given it a flexibility, a brilliance, a polish, which it never
possessed before; but it has done so at the expense of its
masculine qualities, its originality, its spontaneity, its vigour,
its natural grace.  It has disciplined it, but it has
emasculated. impoverished and rigidified it.  It sees in
taste, not a sense of the beautiful, but a certain type
of correctness, an elegant form of mediocrity.  It has
substituted pomp for grandeur, school routine for individual
inspiration, elaborateness for simplicity, fadeur and the
monotony of literary orthodoxy for variety, the source and
spring of intellectual life; and in the works produced under
its auspices we discover the rhetorician and the writer,
never the man.  By all its traditions the academy was made
to be the natural ornament of a monarchical society.
Richelieu conceived and created it as a sort of superior
centralization applied to intellect, as a high literary
court to maintain intellectual unity and protest against
innovation.  Bonaparte, aware of all this, had thought of
re-establishing its ancient privileges; but it had in his eyes
one fatal defect--esprit. Kings of France could condone a
witticism even against themselves, a parvenu could not.''

On the whole the influence of the French Academy has been
conservative rather than creative.  It has done much by its
example for style, but its attempts to impose its laws on
language have, from the nature of the case, failed.  For,
however perfectly a dictionary or a grammar may represent
the existing language of a nation, an original genius is
certain to arise---a Victor Hugo or an Alfred de Musset--who
will set at defiance all dictionaries and academic rules.

Germany.---Of the German literary academies the most celebrated
was Die Fruchtbringende Gesellschaft (the Fruitful Society),
established at Weimar in 1617.  Five princes were among the
original members.  The object was to purify the mother tongue.
The German academies copied those of Italy in their quaint
titles and petty ceremonials, and exercised little permanent
influence on the language or literature of the country.

Italy.---Italy in the 16th century was remarkable for
the number of its literary academies.  Tiraboschi, in
his History of Italian Literature, has given a list of
171; and Jarkius, in his Specimen Historiae Academiarum
Conditarum, enumerates nearly 700. Many of these, with a
sort of Socratic irony, gave themselves ludicrous names, or
names expressive of ignorance. Such were the Lunatici of
Naples, the Estravaganti, the Fulminales, the Trapessati,
the Drowsy, the Sleepers, the Anxious, the Confused,
the Unstable, the Fantastic, the Transformed, the
Ethereal. ``The first academies of Italy chiefly directed
their attention to classical literature; they compared
manuscripts; they suggested new readings or new interpretations;
they deciphered inscriptions or coins, they sat in judgment
on a Latin ode or debated the propriety of a phrase.  Their
own poetry had, perhaps, never been neglected; but it was not
till the writings of Bembo furnished a new code of criticism
in the Italian language that they began to study it with the
same minuteness as modern Latin.'' ``They were encouragers
of a numismatic and lapidary erudition, elegant in itself,
and throwing for ever little specks of light on the still
ocean of the past, but not very favourable to comprehensive
observation, and tending to bestow on an unprofitable pedantry
the honours of real learning.'' s The Italian nobility,
excluded as they mostly were from politics, and living in
cities, found in literature a consolation and a career.
Such academies were oligarchical in their constitution; they
encouraged culture, but tended to hamper genius and extinguish
originality.  Far the most celebrated was the Accademia
della Crusca or Furfuratorum; that is, of bran, or of
the sifted, founded in 1582.  The title was borrowed from a
previous society at Perugia, the Accademia degli Scossi,
of the well-shaken. Its device was a sieve; its motto, ``Il
piu bel fior ne coglie'' (it collects the finest flower); its
principal object the purification of the language.  Its great
work was the Vocabulario della Crusca, printed at Venice in
1612.  It was composed avowedly on Tuscan principles, and
regarded the 14th century as the Augustan period of the
language.  Paul Beni assailed it in his Anti-Crusca, and
this exclusive Tuscan purism has disappeared in subsequent
editions.  The Accademia della Crusca is now incorporated
with two older societies--the Accademia degli Apatici
(the Impartials) and the Accademia Florentina.

Among the numerous other literary academies of Italy we may
mention the academy of Naples, founded about 1440 by Alphonso,
the king; the Academy of Florence, founded 1540, to illustrate
and perfect the Tuscan tongue, especially by the close study of
Petrarch; the Intronati of Siena, 1525; the Infiammati of
Padua, 1534; the Rozzi of Siena, suppressed by Cosimo, 1568.

The Academy of Humorists arose from a casual meeting of
witty noblemen at the marriage of Lorenzo Marcini, a Roman
gentleman.  It was carnival time, and to give the ladies some
diversion they recited verses, sonnets and speeches, first
impromptus and afterwards set compositions.  This gave them
the name, Beni Humori, which, after they resolved to form
an academy of belles lettres, they changed to Humoristi.

In 1690 the Accademia degli Arcadi was founded at Rome, for
the purpose of reviving the study of poetry, by Crescimbeni,
the author of a history of Italian poetry.  Among its members
were princes, cardinals and other ecclesiastics; and, to
avoid disputes about pre-eminence, all came to its meetings
masked and dressed like Arcadian shepherds.  Within ten years
from its establishment the number of academicians was 600.

The Royal Academy of Savoy dates from 1719, and was made a royal
academy by Charles Albert in 1848.  Its emblem is a gold orange
tree full of flowers and fruit; its motto ``Flores fructusque
oerennes,'' the same as that of the famous Florimentane Academy,
founded at Annecy by St Francis de Sales.  It has published
valuable memoirs on the history and antiquities of Savoy.

Spain.--The Real Academia Espanola at Madrid held its
first meeting in July 1713, in the palace of its founder, the
duke d'Fscalona.  It consisted at first of 8 academicians,
including the duke; to which number 14 others were afterwards
added, the founder being chosen president or director.
In 1714 the king granted them the royal confirmation and
protection.  Their device is a crucible in the middle of the
fire, with this motto, Limpia, fixa, y da esplendor--``It
purifies, fixes, and gives brightness.'' The number of its
members was limited to 24; the duke d'Escalona was chosen
director for life, but his successors were elected yearly, and
the secretary for life.  Their object, as marked out by the
royal declaration, was to cultivate and improve the national
language.  They were to begin with choosing carefully such
words and phrases as have been used by the best Spanish writers;
noting the low, barbarous or obsolete ones; and composing a
dictionary wherein these might be distinguished from the former.

Sweden.--The Svenska Akademien was founded in 1786, for the
purpose of purifying and perfecting the Swedish language. A medal
is struck by its direction every year in honour of some illustrious
Swede.  This academy does not publish its transactions.

III. ACADEMIES OF ARCHAEOLOGY AND HISTORY France.---The old
Academie des inscriptions et belles-lettres (or ``Petite
Academie,'' founded in 1663) was an offshoot of the French
Academy, which then at least contained the elite of French
learning.  Louis XIV. was of all French kings the one most
occupied with his own aggrandisement.  Literature, and even
science, he only encouraged so far as they redounded to his
own glory.  Nor were literary men inclined to assert their
independence.  Boileau well represented the spirit of the age
when, in dedicating his tragedy Berenice to Colbert, he
wrote: ``The least things become important if in any degree
they can serve the glory and pleasure of the king.'' Thus it
was that the Academy of Inscriptions arose.  At the suggestion
of Colbert a company (a committee we should now call it) had
been appointed by the king, chosen from the French Academy,
charged with the office of furnishing inscriptions, devices
and legends for medals.  It consisted of four academicians:
Chapelain, then considered the poet laureate of France, one
of the authors of the critique on the Cid; the abbe Amable
de Bourzeis (1606-1671); Francois Charpentier (1620-1702),
an antiquary of high repute among his contemporaries; and
the abbe Jacques de Cassagnes (1636-1679), who owed his
appointment more to the fulsome flattery of his odes than
to his really learned translations of Cicero and Sallust.
This company used to meet in Colbert's library in the winter,
at his country-house at Sceaux in the summer, generally on
Wednesdays, to serve the convenience of the minister, who was
always present.  Their meetings were principally occupied with
discussing the inscriptions, statues and pictures intended for
the decoration of Versailles; but Colbert, a really learned
man and an enthusiastic collector of manuscripts, was often
pleased to converse with them on matters of art, history and
antiquities.  Their first published work was a collection of
engravings, accompanied by descriptions, designed for some
of the tapestries at Versailles.  Louvois, who succeeded
Colbert as a superintendent of buildings, revived the
company, which had begun to relax its labours.  Felibien,
the learned architect, and the two great poets Racine and
Boileau, were added to their number.  A series of medals
was commenced, entitled Medailles de la Grande Histoire,
or, in other words, the history of the Grand Monarque.

But it was to M. de Pontchartrain, comptroller-general of
finance and secretary of state, that the academy owed its
institution.  He added to the company Renaudot and Jacques
Tourreil, both men of vast learning, the latter tutor to his
son, and put at its head his nephew, the abbe Jean Paul
Bignou. librarian to the king.  By a new regulation, dated
the 16th of July 1701, the Academie royale des inscriptions
et medailles was instituted, being composed of ten honorary
members, ten pensioners, ten associates, and ten pupils.  Its
constitution was an almost exact copy of that of the Academy of
Sciences.  Among the regulations we find the following, which
indicates clearly the transition from a staff of learned
officials to a learned body: ``The academy shall concern
itself with all that can contribute to the perfection of
inscriptions and legends, of designs for such monuments and
decorations as may be submitted to its judgment; also with
the description of all artistic works, present and future,
and the historical explanation of the subject of such works;
and as the knowledge of Greek and Latin antiquities. and
of these two languages, is the best guarantee for success
in labours of this class, the academicians shall apply
themselves . to all that this division of learning includes,
as one of the most worthy objects of their pursuit.''

Among the first honorary members we find the indefatigable
Mabillon (excluded from the pensioners by reason of his orders),
Pere La Chaise, the king's confessor, and Cardinal Rohan;
among the associates Fontenelle and Rollin, whose Ancient
History was submitted to the academy for revision.  In 1711
they completed L'Histoire metallique du roi, of which
Saint-Simon was asked to write the preface.  In 1716 the regent
changed its title to that of the Academie des inscriptions et
belleslettres, a title which better suited its new character.

In the great battle between the Ancients and the Moderns
which divided the learned world in the first half of the 18th
century, the Academy of Inscriptions naturally espoused the
cause of the Ancients, as the Academy of Sciences did that of the
Moderns.  During the earlier years of the French Revolution
the academy continued its labours uninterruptedly; and on the
22nd of January 1793, the day after the death of Louis XVI,
we find in the Proceedinigs that M. Brequigny read a paper
on the projects of marriage between Queen Elizabeth and the
dukes of Anjou and Alencon.  In the same year were published
the 45th and 46th vols. of the Memoires de l'academie.
On the 2nd of August of the same year the last seance of
the old academy was held.  More fortunate than its sister
Academy of Sciences, it lost only three of its members by
the guillotine.  One of these was the astronomer Sylvain
Bailly.  Three others sat as members of the Convention;
but for the honour of the academy, it should be added
that all three were distinguished by their moderation.

In the first draft of the new Institute, October 25, 1795, no
class corresponded exactly to the old Academy of Inscriptions;
but most of the members who survived found themselves re-elected
either in the class of moral and political science, under
which history and geography were included as sections, or
more generally under the class of literature and fine arts,
which embraced ancient languages, antiquities and monuments.

In 1816 the academy received again its old name.  The Proceedings
of the society embrace a vast field, and are of very various
merits.  Perhaps the subjects on which it has shown most
originality are comparative mythology, the history of science
among the ancients, and the geography and antiquities of
France.  The old academy has reckoned among its members De
Sacy the orientalist, Dansse de Villoison (1750-1805) the
philologist, Anquetil du Perron the traveller, Guillaume J.
de C. L. Sainte-Croix and du Theil the antiquaries, and Le
Beau, who has been named the last of the Romans.  The new
academy has inscribed on its lists the names of Champollion,
A. Remusat, Raynouard, Burnout and Augustin Thierry.

In consequence of the attention of several literary men in
Paris having been directed to Celtic antiquities, a Celtic
Academy was established in that city in 1805.  Its objects were,
first, the elucidation of the history, customs, antiquities,
manners and monuments of the Celts, particularly in France;
secondly, the etymology of all the European languages, by
the aid of the Celto-British, Welsh and Erse; and, thirdly,
researches relating to Druidism.  The attention of the members
was also particularly called to the history and settlements
of the Galatae in Asia. Lenoir, the keeper of the museum of
French monuments, was appointed president.  The academy still
exists as La societe nationale des antiquaires de France.

Great Britain.---The British Academy was the outcome of
a meeting of the principal European and American academies,
held at Wiesbaden in October 1899.  A scheme was drawn up
for an international association of the academies of the
world under the two sections of natural science and literary
science, but while the Royal Society adequately represented
England in science there was then no existing institution
that could claim to represent England in literature, and at
the first meeting of the federated academies this chair was
vacant.  A plan was proposed by Professor H. Sidgwick to add a
new section to the Royal Society, but after long deliberation
this was rejected by the president and council. The promoters
of the plan thereupon determined to form a separate society,
and invited certain persons to become the first members of a
new body, to be cailed ``The British Academy for the promotion
of historical, philosophical and philological studies.'' The
unincorporated body thus formed petitioned for a charter,
and on the 8th of August 1902 the royal charter was granted
and the by-laws were allowed by order in council. The objects
of the academy are therein defined--``the promotion of the
study of the moral and political sciences, including history,
philosophy, law, politics and economics, archaeology and
philology.'' The number of ordinary fellows (so all members
are entitled) is restricted to one hundred, and the academy
is governed by a president (the first being Lord Reay)
and a council of fifteen elected annually by the fellows.

Italy.--Under this class the Accademia Ercolanese (Academy
of Herculaneum) properly ranks.  It was established at
Naples about 1755, at which period a museum was formed of
the antiquities found at Herculaneum, Pompeii and other
places, by the marquis Tanucci, who was then minister of
state.  Its object was to explain the paintings, &c., discovered
at those places. For this purpose the members met every
fortnight, and at each meeting three paintings were submitted
to three academicians, who made their report at their next
sitting.  The first volume of their labours appeared in 1775,
and they have been continued under the title of Antichita di
Ercolano. They contain engravings of the principal paintings,
statues, bronzes, marble figures, medals, utensils, &c., with
explanations.  In the year 1807 an academy of history and
antiquities, on a new plan, was established at Naples by Joseph
Bonaparte.  The number of members was limited to forty, twenty
of whom were to be appointed by the king; and these twenty
were to present to him, for his choice, three names for each
of those needed to complete the full number. Eight thousand
ducats were to be annually allotted for the current expenses,
and two thousand for prizes to the authors of four works
which should be deemed by the academy most deserving of such a
reward.  A grand meeting was to be held every year, when
the prizes were to be distributed and analyses of the works
read.  The first meeting took place on the 25th of April
1807; but the subsequent changes in the political state
of Naples prevented the full and permanent establishment
of this institution.  In the same year an academy was
established at Florence for the illustration of Tuscan
antiquities, which published some volumes of memoirs.

IV. ACADEMIES OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY Austria.---The
defunct Academy of Surgery at Vienna was instituted in
1784 by the emperor Joseph II. under the direction of the
distinguished surgeon, Giovanni Alessandro Brambilla ( 1728-
1800) . For many years it did important work, and though closed
in 1848 was reconstituted by the emperor Francis Joseph in
1854.  In 1874 it ceased to exist; its functions had become
mainly military, and were transferred to newer schools.

France.---Academie de Medecine. Medicine is a science
which has always engaged the attention of the kings of
France. Charlemagne established a school of medicine in the
Louvre, and various societies have been founded, and privileges
granted to the faculty by his successors.  The Acadimie de
medecine succeeded to the old Academie royale de chirurgie
et societe royale de medecine. It was erected by a royal
ordinance, dated December 20, 1820. It was divided into three
sections--medicine, surgery and pharmacy.  In its constitution
it closely resembled the Academie des sciences. Its
function was to preserve or propagate vaccine matter, and
answer inquiries addressed to it by the government on the
subject of epidemics, sanitary reform and public health
generally.  It has maintained an enormous correspondence in
all quarters of the globe and published extensive minutes.

Germany.--The Academia Naturae Curiosi, afterwards
called the Academia Caesaraea Leopoldina, was founded in
1662 by J. L. Bausch, a physician of Leipzig, who published
a general invitation to medical men to communicate all
extraordinary cases that occurred in the course of their
practice.  The works of the Naturae Curiosi were at first
published separately; but in 1770 a new arrangement was
planned for publishing a volume of observations annually.
From some cause, however, the first volume did not make
its appearance until 1784, when it was published under the
title of Ephemerides. In 1687 the emperor Leopold took the
society under his protection, and its name was changed in his
honour.  This academy has no fixed abode, but follows the
home of its president.  Its library remains at Dresden. By its
constitution the Leopoldine Academy consists of a president,
two adjuncts or secretaries and unlimited colleagues or
members.  At their admission the last come under a twofold
obligation--first, to choose some subject for discussion out
of the animal, vegetable or mineral kingdoms, not previously
treated by any colleague of the academy; and, secondly, to apply
themselves to furnish materials for the annual Ephemerides.

V. ACADEMIES OF THE FINE ARTS France.---The Academie
royale de peinture et de sculpture at Paris was founded by
Louis XIV. in 1648, under the title of Academie royale des
beaux arts, to which was afterwards united the Academie
d'architecture, founded 1671.  It is composed of painters,
sculptors, architects, engravers and musical composers.
From among the members of the society who are painters,
is chosen the director of the French Academie des beaux
arts at Berne, also instituted by Louis XIV. in 1677.  The
director's province is to superintend the studies of the
painters, sculptors, &c., who, chosen by competition, are
sent to Italy at the expense of the government, to complete
their studies in that country. Most of the celebrated
French painters have begun their career in this way.

The Academie nationale de musique is the official and
administrative name given in France to the grand opera.  In
1570 the poet Baif established in his house a school of
music, at which ballets and masquerades were given.  In 1645
Mazarin brought from Italy a troupe of actors, and established
them in the rue du Petit Bourbon, where they gave Jules
Strozzi's Achille in Sciro, the first opera performed in
France.  After Moliere's death in 1673, his theatre in the
Palais Royal was given to Sulu, and there were performed
all Gluck's great operas; there Vestris danced, and there
was produced Jean Jacques Rousseau's Devin du Village.

Great Britain.--The Royal Academy of Arts in London, founded in
1768, is described in a separate article. (See ACADEMY, ROYAL.)

The Academy of Ancient Music was established in London in
1710, with the view of promoting the study and practice of
vocal and instrumental harmony.  This institution had a fine
musical library, and was aided by the performances of the
gentlemen of the Chapel Royal and the choir of St Paul's,
with the boys belonging to each, and continued to flourish
for many years.  About 1734 the academy became a seminary
for the instruction of youth in the principias of music
and the laws of harmony.  The Royal Academy of Music was
formed for the performance of operas, composed by Handel,
and conducted by him at the theatre in the Haymarket.  The
subscription amounted to L. 50,000, and the king, besides
subscribing L. 1000, allowed the society to assume the title
Royal.  It consisted of a governor, deputy-governor and twenty
directors.  A contest between Handel and Senesino, one of
the performers, in which the directors took the part of the
latter, occasioned the dissolution of the academy after it
had existed with honour for more than nine years.  The present
Royal Academy of Music dates from 1822, and was incorporated in
1830.  It instructs pupils of both sexes in music. (See
also the article CONSERVATOIRE for colleges of music. )

Italy.--In 1778 an academy of painting and sculpture was
established at Turin.  The meetings were held in the palace
of the king, who distributed prizes among the most successful
members.  In Milan an academy of architecture was established
so early as 1380, by Gian Galeazzo Visconti.  About the
middle of the 18th century an academy of the arts was
established there, after the example of those at Paris and
Rome.  The pupils were furnished with originals and models,
and prizes were distributed by competent judges annually.
The prize for painting was a gold medal.  Before the effects
of the French Revolution reached Italy this was one of the
best establishments of the kind in that kingdom.  In the hall
of the academy were some admirable examples of Correggio,
as well as several statues of great merit, particularly a
small bust of Vitellins, and a torso of Agrippina, of most
exquisite beauty.  The academy of the arts, which had been
long established at Florence, fell into decay, but was
restored in the end of the 18th century.  In it there are halls
for nude and plaster figures, for the use of the sculptor
and the painter, with models of all the finest statues in
Italy.  But the treasures of this and the other institutions
for the fine arts were greatly diminished during the occupancy
of Italy by the French. The academy of the arts at Modena,
after being plundered by the French, dwindled into a petty
school for drawing from living models.  There is also an
academy of the fine arts in Mantua, and another at Venice.

Russia.--The academy of St Petersburg was established in
1757 by the empress Elizabeth, at the suggestion of Count
Shuvalov, and annexed to the academy of sciences.  The fund for
its support was L. 4000 per annum, and the foundation admitted
forty scholars.  Catherine II. formed it into a separate
institution, augumented the annual revenue to L. 12,000, and
increased the number of scholars to three hundred; she
built for it a large circular building, which fronts the
Neva.  The scholars are admitted at the age of six, and
continue until they have attained that of eighteen.  They
are clothed, fed and lodged at the expense of the crown;
and are instructed in reading, writing, arithmetic, French,
German and drawing.  At the age of fourteen they are at
liberty to choose any of the following arts; first, painting
in all its branches, architecture, mosaic, enamelling,
&c.; second, engraving on copper-plates, sealcutting,
&c.; third, carving on wood, ivory and amber; fourth,
watch-making, turning, instrument-making, casting statues
in bronze and other metals, imitating gems and medals in
paste and other compositions, gilding and varnishing.  Prizes
are annually distributed, and from those who have obtained
four prizes, twelve are selected, who are sent abroad at
the charge of the crown.  A certain sum is paid to defray
their travelling expenses; and when they are settled in any
town, they receive during four years an annual salary of
L. 60.  The academy has a small gallery of paintings for
the use of the scholars; and those who have made great
progress are permitted to copy the pictures in the imperial
collection.  For the purpose of design, there are
full-size models of the best antique statues in Italy.

South America.---There are several small academies in the
various towns of South America, the only one of note being
that of Rio de Janeiro, founded by John VI. of Portugal in
1816 and now known as the Escola Nacional de Bellas Artes.

Spain.---In Madrid an academy for painting, sculpture and
architecture, the Academia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando,
was founded by Philip V. The minister for foreign affairs is
president.  Prizes are distributed every three years.  In Cadiz
a few students are supplied by government with the means of
drawing and modelling from figures; and such as are not able
to purchase the requisite instruments are provided with them.

Sweden.---An academy of the fine arts was founded at
Stockholm in the year 1733 by Count Tessin.  In its hall are
the ancient figures of plaster presented by Louis XIV. to
Charles XI. The works of the students are publicly exhibited,
and prizes are distributed annually.  Such of them as display
distinguished ability obtain pensions from government, to
enable them to reside in Italy for some years, for the purposes
of investigation and improvement.  In this academy there are
nine professors and generally about four hundred students.

Austria.--In the year 1705 an academy of painting,
sculpture and architecture was established at Vienna,
with the view of encouraging and promoting the fine arts.

United States of America.--In America the institution similar
to the Royal Academy of Arts in London is the National Academy
of Design (1826), which in 1906 absorbed the Society of American
Artists, the members of the society becoming members of the academy.

The volume of excerpts from the general catalogue of
books in the British Museum, ``Academies,'' 5 parts and
index, furnishes a complete bibliography. (F. S.)

1 The Academy has made the amende honorable by placing in the
Salle des seances a bust of Moliere, with the inscription
``Rienne manque a sa gloire, it manquait a la notre.''

2 Hallam's Int. to Lit. of Europe, vol. i. p. 654, and vol. ii. p. 502.

ACADEMY, GREEK or ACADEME (Gr. akademeia or
ekademia), the name given to the philosophic successors of
Plato.  The name is derived from a pleasure-garden or
gymnasium situated in the suburb of the Ceramicus on the
river Cephissus about a mile to the north-west of Athens
from the gate called Dipylum. It was said to have belonged
to the ancient Attic hero Academus, who, when the Dioscuri
invaded Attica to recover their sister Helen, carried off by
Theseus, revealed the place where she was hidden.  Out of
gratitude the Lacedaemonians, who reverenced the Dioscuri,
always spared the Academy during their invasions of the
country.  It was walled in by Hipparchus and was adorned
with walks, groves and fountains by Cimon (Plut. Cim.
13), who bequeathed it as a public pleasure-ground to
his fellow-citizens. Subsequently the garden became the
resort of Plato (q.v.), who had a small estate in the
neighbourhood.  Here he taught for nearly fifty years till
his death in 348 B.C., and his followers continued to
make it their headquarters.  It was closed for teaching by
Justinian in A.D. 529 along with the other pagan schools.
Cicero borrowed the name for his villa near Puteoll,
where he Composed his dialogue The Academic Questions.

The Platonic Academy (proper) lasted from the days of Plato
to those of Cicero, and during its whole course there is
traceable a distinct continuity of thought which justifies
its examination as a real intellectual unit.  On the
other hand, this continuity of thought is by no means an
identity.  The Platonic doctrine was so far modified in
the hands of successive scholarchs that the Academy has
been divided into either two, three or five main sections
(Sext.  Empir. Pyrrh.  Hyp. i. 220).  Finally,in the days
of Philo, Antiochus and Cicero, the metaphysical dogmatism
of Plato had been changed into an ethical syncretism which
combined elements from the Scepticism of Carneades and the
doctrines of the Stoics; it was a change from a dogmatism
which men found impossible to defend, to a probabilism
which afforded a retreat from Scepticism and intellectual
anarchy. Cicero represents at once the doctrine of the later
Academy and the general attitude of Roman society when he
says, ``My words do not proclaim the truth, like a Pythian
priestess; but I conjecture what is probable, like a plain
man; and where, I ask, am I to search for anything more than
verisimilitude?'' And again: ``The characteristic of the
Academy is never to interpose one's judgment, to approve what
seems most probable, to compare together different opinions,
to see what may be advanced on either side and to leave one's
listeners free to judge without pretending to dogmatize.''

The passage from Sextus Empiricus, cited above, gives the
general view that there were three academies: the first, or
Old, academy under Speusippus and Xenocrates; the second,
or Middle, academy under Arcesilaus and Polemon; the third,
or New, academy under Carneades and Clitomachus.  Sextus
notices also the theory that there was a fourth, that of Philo
of Larissa and Charmidas, and a fifth, that of Antiochus.
Diogenes Laertius says that Lacydes was the founder of the
New Academy (i. 19, iv. 59). Cicero (de Orat. iii. 18, &c.)
and Varro insist that there were only two academies, the Old
and the New. Those who maintain that there is no justification
for the five-fold division hold that the agnosticism of
Carneades was really latent in Plato, and became prominent
owing to the necessity of refuting the Stoic criterion.

The general tendency of the Academic thinkers was towards
practical simplicity, a tendency due in large measure to
the inferior intellectual capacity of Plato's immediate
successors. Cicero (de Fin. v. 3) says generally of the
Old Academy: ``Their writings and method contain all liberal
learning, all history, all polite discourse; and besides they
embrace such a variety of arts, that no one can undertake any
noble career without their aid. . . . In a word the Academy
is, as it were, the workshop of every artist.'' It is true
that these men turned to scientific investigation, but in
so doing they escaped from the high altitudes in which Plato
thought, and tended to lay emphasis on the mundane side of
philosophy.  Of Plato's originality and speculative power,
of his poetry and enthusiasm they inherited nothing, ``nor
amid all the learning which has been profusely lavished upon
investigating their tenets is there a single deduction calculated
to elucidate distinctly the character of their progress or
regression'' (Archer Butler, Lect. on Anc. Phil. ii. 515).

The modification of Academic doctrine from Plato to
Cicero may be indicated briefly under four heads.

(1) Plato's own theory of Ideas was not accepted even by
Speusirinus and Xenocrates.  They argued that the Good cannot
be the origin of things, inasmuch as Goodness is only found
as an attribute of things.  Therefore, the idea of Good must
be secondary to some other more fundamental principle of
existence.  This unit Speusippus attempted to find in
the Pythagorean number-theory.  From it he deduced three
principles, one for numbers, one for magnitude, one for the
soul.  The Deity he conceived as that living force which
rules all and resides everywhere.  Xenocrates, though like
Speusippus infected with Pythagoreanism, was the most faithful
of Plato's successors.  He distinguished three spheres, the
sensible, the intelligible, and a third compounded of the
two, to which correspond respectively, sense, intellect and
opinion (doxa). Cicero notes, however, that both Speusippus
and Xenocrates abandon the Socratic principle of hesitancy.

(2) Up to Arcesilaus, the Academy accepted the principle of
finding a general unity in all things, by the aid of which a
principle of certainty might be found.  Arcesilaus, however,
broke new ground by attacking the very possibility of certainty.
Socrates had said, ``This alone I know, that I know nothing.''
But Arcesilaus went farther and denied the possibility of
even the Socratic minimum of certainty: ``I cannot know even
whether I know or not.'' Thus from the dogmatism of the master
the Academy plunged into the extremes of agnostic criticism.

(3) The next stage in the Academic succession was the moderate
scepticism of Carneades, which owed its existence to his
opposition to Chrysippus, the Stoic.  To the Stoical theory
of perception, the fantasia kataleptike, by which they
expressed a conviction of certainty arising from impressions
so strong as to amount to science, he opposed the doctrine
of acatalepsia, which denied any necessary correspondence
between perceptions and the objects perceived.  He saved
himself, however, from absolute scepticism by the doctrine
of probability or verisimilitude, which may serve as a
practical guide in life.  Thus his criterion of imagination
(fantasia) is that it must be credible, irrefutable and
attested by comparison with other impressions; it may be
wrong, but for the person concerned it is valid.  In ethics
he was an avowed sceptic.  During his official visit to Rome,
he gave public lectures, in which he successively proved
and disproved with equal ease the existence of justice.

(4) In the last period we find a tendency not only
to reconcile the internal divergences of the Academy
itself, but also to connect it with parallel growths of
thought.  Philo of Larissa endeavours to show that Carneades
was not opposed to Plato, and further that the apparent
antagonism between Plato and Zeno was due to the fact that
they were arguing from different points of view.  From this
syncretism emerged the prudent non-committal eclecticism
of Cicero, the last product of Academic development.

For detailed accounts of the Academicians see SPEUSIPPUS,
XENOCRATES, &c.; also STOICS and NEOPLATONISM. Consult
histories of philosophy by Zeller and Windelband, and Th.
Gomperz, Greek Thinkers, ii. 270 (Eng. tr., London, 1905).

ACADEMY, ROYAL. The Royal Academy of Arts in London, to
give it the original title in full, was founded in 1768,
``for the purpose of cultivating and improving the arts of
painting, sculpture and architecture.'' Many attempts had
previously been made in England to form a society which
should have for its object the advancement of the fine
arts.  Sir Jumes Thornbill, his son-in-law Hogarth, the
Dilettanti Society, made efforts in this direction, but their
schemes were wrecked by want of means.  Accident solved the
problem.  The crowds that attended an exhibition of pictures
held in 1758 at the Foundling Hospital for the benefit
of charity, suggested a way of making money hitherto
unsuspected.  Two societies were quickly formed, one
calling itself the ``Society of Artists'' and the other the
``Free Society of Artists.'' The latter ceased to exist in
1774.  The former flourished, and in 1765 was granted a royal
charter under the title of the ``Incorporated Society of
Artists of Great Britain.'' But though prosperous it was not
united.  A number of the members, including the most eminent
artists of the day, resigned in 1768, and headed by William
Chambers the architect, and Benjamin West, presented on
28th November in that year to George III., who had already
shown his interest in the fine arts, a memorial soliciting
his ``gracious assistance, patronage and protection,'' in
``establishing a society for promoting the arts of design.',
The memorialists stated that the two principal objects they
had in view were the establishing of ``a well-regulated
school or academy of design for the use of students in the
arts, and an annual exhibition open to all artists of
distinguished merit; the profit arising from the last of these
institutions'' would, they thought, ``fully answer all the
expenses of the first,'' and, indeed, leave something over
to be distributed ``in useful charities.'' The king expressed
his agreement with the proposal, but asked for further
particulars.  These were furnished to him on the 7th of
December and approved, and on the 10th of December they
were submitted in form, and the document embodying them
received his signature, with the words, ``I approve of this
plan; let it be put into execution.'' This document, known
as the ``Instrument,'' defined under twenty-seven heads the
constitution and government of the Royal Academy, and contained
the names of the thirty-six original members nominated by the
king.  Changes and modifications in the laws and regulations
laid down in it have of course been made, but none of them
without the sanction of the sovereign, and the ``Instrument''
remains to this day in all essential particulars the Magna
Charta of the society.  Four days after the signing of this
document--on the 14th of Decemben--twentyeight of the first
nominated members met and drew up the Form of Obligation
which is still signed by every academician on receiving his
diploma, and also elected a president, keeper, secretary,
council and visitors in the schools; the professors being chosen
at a further meeting held on the 17th.  No time was lost in
establishing the schools, and on the 2nd of January 1769 they
were opened at some rooms in Pall Mall, a little eastward of
the site now occupied by the Junior United Service Club, the
president, Sir Joshua Reynolds, delivering on that occasion the
first of his famous ``discourses.'' The opening of the first
exhibition at the same place followed on the 26th of April.

The king when founding the Academy undertook to supply out
of his own privy purse any deficiencies between the receipts
derived from the exhibitions and the expenditure incurred on
the schools, charitable donations for artists, &c. For twelve
years he was called upon to do so, and contributed in all
something over L. 5000, but in 1781 there was a surplus, and no
further call has ever been made on the royal purse.  George
III. also gave the Academy rooms in what was then his own
palace of Somerset House, and the schools and offices were
removed there in 1771, but the exhibition continued to be held
in Pall Mall, till the completion in 1780 of the new Somerset
House.  Then the Academy took possession of the apartments
in it which the king, on giving up the palace for government
offices, had expressly stipulated should be provided.  Here
it remained till 1837, when the government, requiring the use
of these rooms, offered in exchange a portion of the National
Gallery, then just erected in Trafalgar Square.  The offer,
which contained no conditions, was accepted.  But it was
not long before the necessity for a further removal became
imminent.  Already in 1850 notice was given by the government
that the rooms occupied by the Academy would be required for
the purposes of the National Gallery, and that they proposed
to give the academy L. 40,000 to provide themselves with a
building elsewhere.  The matter slumbered, however, till 1858,
when the question was raised in the house of Commons as to
whether it would not be justifiable to turn the Academy out
of the National Gallery without making any provision for it
elsewhere.  Much discussion followed, and a royal commission
was appointed in 1863 ``to inquire into the present position
of the Royal Academy in relation to the fine arts, and into
the circumstances and conditions under which it occupies
a portion of the National Gallery, &c.'' In their report,
which contained a large number of proposals and suggestions,
some of them since carried out, the commissioners stated
that they had ``come to the clear conclusion that the Royal
Academy have no legal, but that they have a moral claim to
apartments at the public expense.'' Negotiations had been
already going on between the government and the Academy for
the appropriation to the latter of a portion of the site
occupied by the recently purchased Burlington House, on which
the Academy offered to erect suitable buildings at its own
expense.  The negotiations were renewed in 1866, and in
March in the following year a lease of old Burlington
House, and a portion of the garden behind it, was granted
to the Academy for 999 years at a peppercorn rent, subject
to the condition that ``the premises shall be at all times
exclusively devoted to the purpose of the cultivation of
the fine arts.'' The Academy immediately proceeded to
erect, on the garden portion of the site thus acquired,
exhibition galleries and schools, which were opened in
1869, further additions being made in 1884.  An upper storey
was also added to old Burlington House, in which to place
the diploma works, the Gibson statuary and other works of
art.  Altogether the Academy, out of its accumulated savings,
has spent on these buildings more than L. 160,000.  They are
its own property, and are maintained entirely at its expense.

The government of the Academy was by the ``Instrument'' vested
in ``a president and eight other persons, who shall form
a council.'' Four of these were to retire every year, and
the seats were to go by rotation to every academician.  The
number was increased in 1870 to twelve, and reduced to ten
in 1875. The rules as to retirement and rotation are still in
force.  Newly elected academicians begin their two years'
service as soon as they have received their diploma.  The
council has, to quote the ``Instrument'', ``the entire
direction and management of the business'' of the Academy
in all its branches; and also the framing of new laws and
regulations, but the latter, before coming into force, must
be sanctioned by the general assembly and approved by the
sovereign.  The general assembly consists of the whole body of
academicians, and meets on certain fixed dates and at such
other times as the business may require; also at the request
to the president of any five members.  The principal executive
officers of the Academy are the president, the keeper, the
treasurer, the librarian and the secretary, all now elected
by the general assembly, subject to the approval of the
sovereign.  The president is elected annually on the foundation
day, 10th December, but the appointment is virtually for
life.  No change has ever been made in the conditions attached
to this office, with the exception of its being now a salaried
instead of an unsalaried post.  The treasurership and
librarianship, both offices originally held not by election but
by direct appointment from the sovereign, are now elective,
the holders being subject to re-election every five years,
and the keepership is also held upon the same terms; while
the secretaryship, which up to 1873 had always been filled
like the other offices by an academician, has since then
been held by a layman. Other officers elected by the general
assembly are the auditors (three academicians, one of whom
retires every year), the visitors in the schools (academicians
and associates), and the professors of painting, sculpture
and architecture---who must be members---and of anatomy and
chemistry.  There are also a registrar, and curators and
teachers in the schools, who are appointed by the council.

The thirty-six original academicians were named by George III.
Their successors have been elected, up to 1867, by academicians
only---since that date by academicians and associates together.
The original number was fixed in the ``Instrument'' at forty,
and has so remained.  Each academician on his election has to
present an approved specimen of his work---called his diploma
work---before his diploma is submitted to the sovereign for
signature.  On receiving his diploma he signs the Roll of
Institution as an academician, and takes his seat in the general
assembly.  The class of associates, out of whom alone the
academicians can be elected, was founded in 1769---they were
``to be elected from amongst the exhibitors, and be entitled
to every advantage enjoyed by the royal academicians,
excepting that of having a voice in the deliberations or any
share in the government of the Academy.'' Those exhibitors
who wished to become candidates had to give in their names
at the close of the exhibition.  This condition no longer
exists, candidates having since 1867 merely to be proposed and
seconded by members of the Academy.  On election, they attend
at a council meeting to sign the Roll of Institution as an
associate, and receive a diploma signed by the president and
secretary.  In 1867 also associates were admitted to vote
at all elections of members; in 1868 they were made eligible
to serve as visitors in the schools, and in 1886 to become
candidates for the professorships of painting, sculpture and
architecture.  At first the number of associates was limited
to twenty; in 1866 the number was made indefinite with a
minimum of twenty, and in 1876 the minimum was raised to
thirty.  Vacancies in the lists of academicians and associates
caused by death or resignation can be filled up at any time
within five weeks of the event, except in the months of
August, September and October, but a vacancy in the associate
list caused by election only dates from the day on which
the new academician receives his diploma.  The mode of
election is the same in both cases, first by marked lists
and afterwards by ballot.  All who at the first marking have
four or more votes are marked for again, and the two highest
then go to the ballot.  Engravers have always constituted
a separate class, and up to 1855 they were admitted to the
associateship only, the number, six, being in addition to
the other associates; now the maximum is four, of whom not
more than two may be academicians.  A class of honorary
retired academicians was established in 1862, and of honorary
retired associates in 1884. The first honorary foreign
academicians were elected in 1869. The honorary members
consist of a chaplain, an antiquary, a secretary for foreign
correspondence, and professors of ancient history and ancient
literature.  These posts, which date from the foundation of
the Academy, have always been held by distinguished men.

Academy Schools.--One of the most important functions of the
Royal Academy, and one which for nearly a century it discharged
alone, was the instruction of students in art.  The first
act, as has been shown, of the newly founded Academy was to
establish schools ---``an Antique Academy,'' and a ``School
for the Living Model'' for painters, sculptors and architects.
In the first year, 1769, no fewer than seventy-seven students
entered.  A school of painting was added in 1815, and special
schools of sculpture and architecture in 1871.  It would
occupy too much space to follow the various changes that
have been made in the schools since their establishment.  In
one important respect, however, they remain the same, viz.
in the instruction being gratuitous--no fees have ever been
charged.  Up to the removal of the Academy to its present
quarters the schools could not be kept permanently open, as
the rooms occupied by them were wanted for the exhibition.
They are now open all the year round with the exception
of a fortnight at Christmas, and the months of August and
September.  They consist of an antique school, upper and
lower schools of painting, a school of drawing from the life,
a school of modelling from the life and an architectural
school. Admission is gained by submitting certain specimens
of drawing or modelling, and the successful candidates, called
probationers, have then to undergo a further test in the
schools, on passing which they are admitted as students
for three years.  At the end of that time they are again
examined, and if qualified admitted for a further term of two
years.  These examinations are held twice a year, in January
and July.  Female students were first admitted in 1860.
There are many scholarships, money prizes and medals to be
gained by the various classes of students during the time of
studentship, including travelling studentships of the value
of L. 200 for one year, gold and silver medals, and prizes
varying from L. 50 to L. 10.  There are permanent curators and
teachers in all the schools, but the principal teaching is
done by the visitors, academicians and associates, elected
to serve in each school.  The average cost of maintaining
these schools, including salaries, fees, cost of models,
prizes, books, maintenance of building, &c., is from L. 5000 to
L. 6000 a year, apart from certain scholarships and prizes
derived from moneys given or bequeathed for this purpose,
such as the Landseer scholarships, the Creswick prize, the
Armitage prizes and the Turner scholarship and gold medal.

Charities. -- Another of the principal objects to which
the profits of the Royal Academy have been devoted has been
the relief of disiressed artists and their families.  From
the commencement of the institution a fund was set apart for
this purpose, and subsequently a further sum was allotted
to provide pensions for necessitous members of the Academy
and their widows.  Both these funds were afterwards merged
in the general fund, and various changes have from time to
time been made in the conditions under which pensions and
donations have been granted and in their amount.  At the
present time pensions not exceeding a certain fixed amount
may be given to academicians and associates, sixty years of
age, who have retired and whose circumstances show them to
be in need, provided the sum given does not make their total
annual income exceed a certain limit, and the same amounts
can be given to their widows subject to the same conditions.
No pensions are granted without very strict inquiry into
the circumstances of the applicant, who is obliged to make
a yearly declaration as to his or her income.  The average
annual amount of these pensions has been latterly about
L. 2000.  Pensions are also given according to the civil
service scale to certain officers on retirement. lt may be
stated here that with the exception of these pensions and
of salaries and fees for official services, no member of the
Academy derives any pecuniary benefit from the funds of the
institution.  Donations to distressed artists who are or
have been exhibitors at the Royal Academy, their widows
and children under twenty-one years of age, are made twice
a year in February and August.  The maximum amount that
can be granted to any one applicant in one donation is
L. 100, and no one can receive a grant more than once a
year.  The average yearly amount thus expended is from
L. 1200 to L. 1500.  In addition to these charities from its
general funds, the Academy administers for the benefit of
artists, not members of the Academy, certain other funds
which have been bequeathed to it for charitable purposes,
viz. the Turner fund, the Cousins fund, the Cooke fund,
the Newton bequest and the Edwards fund (see below).

Exhibitions. -- The source from which have been derived
the funds for carrying on the varied work of the Royal
Academy, its schools, its charities and general cost of
administration, and which has enabled it to spend large sums
on building, and provided it with the means of maintaining
the buildings, has been the annual exhibitions. With the
exception of the money left by John Gibson, R.A., some
of which was spent in building the gallery containing the
statues and bas-reliefs bequeathed by him, these exhibitions
have provided the sole source of revenue, all other moneys
that have come to the Academy having been either left in
trust, or been constituted trusts, for certain specific
purposes.  The first exhibition in 1769 contained 136 works,
of which more than one-half were contributed by members, and
brought in L. 699: 17: 6. In 1780, the first year in which the
receipts exceeded the expenditure, the number of works was
489, of which nearly one-third were by members, and the sum
received was L. 3069: 1s. This increase continued gradually
with fluctuations, and in 1836, the last year at Somerset
House, the number of works was 1154, and the receipts were
L. 5179: 19s. No great addition to the number of works exhibited
took place at Trafalgar Square, but the receipts steadily
grew, and their careful management enabled the Academy, when
the time came for moving, to erect its own buildings and
become no longer dependent on the government for a home.
The greater space afforded by the galleries at Burlington
House rendered it possible to increase the number of works
exhibited, which of late years has reached a total of over
2000, while the receipts have also been such as to provide
the means for further building, and for a largely increased
expenditure of all kinds.  It may be noted that the number
of works sent for exhibition soon began to exceed the space
available.  In 1868, the last year at Trafalgar Square, the
number sent was 3011.  This went on increasing, with occasional
fluctuations, at Burlington House, and in the year 1900 it
reached the number of 13,462.  The annual winter exhibition
of works by old masters and deceased British artists was
begun in 1870.  It was never intended to be a source of
revenue, but appreciation by the public has so far prevented
it from being a cause of loss.  The summer exhibition
of works by living artists opens on the first Monday in
May, and closes on the first Monday in August.  The winter
exhibition of works by deceased artists opens on the first
Monday in Januaty. and closes on the second Saturday in
March.  The galleries containing the diploma works, the
Gibson statuary and other works of art are open daily, free.

Presidents of the Royal Academy.--Sir Joshua Reynolds,
1768-1792; Benjamin West (resigned), 1792-1805; James Wyatt
(president-elect), 1805; Benjamin West (re-elected), 1806-1820;
Sir Thomas Lawrence, 1820--1830; Sir Martin Archer Shee, 1830-1850;
Sir Charles Lock Eastlake, 1850--1865; Sir Francis Grant,
1866-1878; Frederick, Lord Leighton of Stretton, 1878--1896;
Sir John Everett Millais, 1896; Sir Edward John Poynter, 1896.

The library contains about 7000 volumes, dealing with
the history, the theory and the practice of the various
branches of the fine arts, some of them of great
rarity and value.  It is open daily to the students and
members, and to other persons on a proper introduction.

The trust funds administered by the Royal Academy are --

The Turner fund (J. M. W. Turner, R.A.), which provides
sixteen annuities of L. 50 each, for artists of repute
not members of the Academy, also a biennial scholarship
of L. 50 and a gold medal for a landscape painting.

The Chantrey fund (Sir Francis Chantrey, R.A.), the
income of which, paid over by the Chantrey trustees,
is spent on pictures and sculpture. (See CHANTREY.)

The Creswick fund (Thomas Creswick, R.A.), which provides
an annual prize of L. 30 for a landscape painting in oil.

The Cooke fund (E.W.  Cooke, R.A.), which provides
two annuities of L. 35 each for painters not members
of the Academy, over sixty years of age and in need.

The Landseer fund (Charles Landseer, R.A.), which provides
four scholarships of L. 40 each, two in painting and two
in sculpture, tenable for two years, open to students
at the end of the first two years of studentship, and
given for the best work done during the second year.

The Armitage fund (E. Armitage, R.A.), which provides two annual prizes
of L. 30 and L. 10, for a design in monochrome for a figure picture.

The Cousins fund (S. Cousins, R.A.), which provides
seven annuities of L. 80 each for deserving artists,
not members of the Academy, in need of assistance.

The Newton bequest (H. C. Newton), which provides an
annual sum of L. 60 for the indigent widow of a painter.

The Bizo.fund (John Bizo), to be used in the scientific
investigation into the nature of pigments and varnishes, &c.

The Edwards fund (W. J. Edwards), producing L.  40 a year
for the benefit of poor artists or artistic engravers.

The Leighton bequest (Lord Leighton, P.R.A.), received
from Mrs Orr and Mrs Matthews in memory of their
brother, the income from which, about L. 300, is expended
on the decoration of public places and buildings.

The literature concerning the Royal Academy consists
chiefly of pamphlets and articles of more or less ephemeral
value.  More serious works are: William Sandby, The History
of the Royal Academy of Arts (London, 1862) (withdrawn
from circulation on a question of copyright); Report
from the Select Committee on Arts and their Connexion with
Manufactures, with the Minutes of Evidence and Appendix
(London, 1836 ); Report of the Royal Commission on the
Royal Academy, with Minutes of Evidence and Appendix
(London, 1863); Martin Archer Shee, The Life of Sir M. A.
Shee, P.R.A. (London, 1860); C. R. Leslie, R.A., and Tom
Taylor, Life and Times of Sir Joshua Reynolds, P.R.A.
(London, 1865); J. E. Hodgson, R.A. (the late), and
Fred.  A. Eaton, Sec. R.A., ``The Royal Academy in the
Last Century,'' Art Journal, 1889-1901.  But the chief
sources of information on the subject are the minute-books
of the council and of the general assembly, and the annual
reports, which, however, only date from 1859. (F. A. E.)

ACADIAN, in geology, the name given by Sir J. W. Dawson
in 1867 to a series of black, red and green shales and
slates, with dark grey limestones, which are well developed
at St John, New Brunswick; Avalon in E. Newfoundland, and
Braintree in E. Massachusetts.  These rocks are of Middle
Cambrian age and possess a Paradoxides fauna.  They
have been correlated with limestone beds in Tennessee,
Alabama, central Nevada and British Columbia (St Stephen).

See CAMBRIAN SYSTEM; also C. D. Walcott, Bull.
U.S. Geol. Survey, No. 81, 1891; and Sir J. W.
Dawson, Acadian Geology, 1st ed. 1855, 3rd ed. 1878.

ACADIE, or ACADIA, a name given by the French in 1603 to
that part of the mainland of North America lying between the
latitudes 40 deg.  and 46 deg. .  In the treaty of Utrecht (1713)
the words used in transferring the French possessions to
Britain were ``Nova Scotia or Acadia.'' See NOVA SCOTIA
for the limits included at that date under the term.

ACAMTHOCEPHALA, a compact group of cylindrical, parasitic
worms, with no near allies in the animal kingdom.  Its
members are quite devoid of any mouth or alimentary canal,
but have a well-developed body cavity into which the eggs
are dehisced and which communicates with the exterior by




From Cambridge Natural History, vol. ii., ``Worms,
&c.,'' by permission of Macmillan & Co., Ltd.

Fig. 1. A, Five specimens of Echinorhynchus acus,
Rud., attached to a piece of intestinal wall, X 4.

B, The proboscis of one still more highly magnified.

means of an oviduct.  The size of the animals varies greatly,
from forms a few millimetres in length to Gigantorhynchus
gigas, which measures from 10 to 65 cms.  The adults live
in great numbers in the alimentary canal of some vertebrate,
usually fish, the larvae are as a rule encysted in the
body cavity of some invertebrate, most often an insect or
crustacean, more rarely a small fish.  The body is divisible
into a proboscis and a trunk with sometimes an intervening neck
region.  The proboscis bears rings of recurved hooks arranged
in horizontal rows, and it is by means of these hooks that the
animal attaches itself to the tissues of its host.  The hooks
may be of two or three shapes.  Like the body, the proboscis
is hollow, and its cavity is separated from the body cavity
by a septum or proboscis sheath.  Traversing the cavity of
the proboscis are muscle-strands inserted into the tip of the
proboscis at one end and into the septum at the other.  Their
contraction causes the proboscis to be invaginated into its
cavity (fig. 2). But the whole proboscis apparatus can also
be, at least partially, withdrawn into the body cavity, and
this is effected by two retractor muscles which run from the
posterior aspect of the septum to the body wall (fig. 3).

The skin is peculiar.  Externally is a thin cuticle; this
covers the epidermis, which consists of a syncytium with
no cell limits.  The syncytium is traversed by a series
of branching tubules containing fluid and is controlled
by a few wandering, amoeboid nuclei (fig. 2). Inside the
syncytium is a not very regular layer of circular muscle
fibres, and within this again some rather scattered
longitudinal fibres; there is no endothelium.  In their
minute structure the muscular fibres resemble those of
Nematodes.  Except for the absence of the longitudinal fibres
the skin of the proboscis resembles that of the body, but
the fluid-containing tubules of the latter are shut off
from those of the body.  The canals of the proboscis open
ultimately into a circular vessel which runs round its base.
From the circular canal two sac-like diverticula called the

  From Cambridge Natural History, vol. ii.,
``Worms, &c.,'' by permission of Macmillan & Co., Ltd.

FIG. 2.--A longitudinal section through the
anterior end of Echinorhynchus haeruca, Rud. (from


 a, The proboscis not fully expanded.
 b, Proboscis-sheath.
 c, Retractor muscles of the proboscis.
 d, Cerebral ganglion.
 e, Retinaculum enclosing a nerve
 f, One of the retractors of the sheath.
 g, A lemniscus.
 h, One of the spaces in the sub-cuticular tissue.
 i, Longitudinal muscular layer.
 j, Circular muscular laver.
 k, Line of division between the sub-cuticular tissue of the trunk
              and that of the proboscis with the lemnisci.


``lemnisci'' depend into the cavity of the body (fig. 2). Each
consists of a prolongation of the syncytial material of the
proboscis skin, penetrated by canals and sheathed with a scanty
muscular coat. They seem to act as reservoirs into which the
fluid of the tense, extended proboscis can withdraw when it
is retracted, and from which the fluid can be driven out when
it is wished to expand the proboscis.

There are no alimentary canal or specialized organs for
circulation or for respiration. Food is imbibed through the skin from
the digestive juices of the host in which the Acanthocephala
live.

J. Kaiser has described as kidneys two organs something like
minute shrubs situated dorsally to the generative ducts into
which they open. At the end of each twig is a membrane
pierced by pores, and a number of cilia depend into the lumen
of the tube; these cilia maintain a constant motion.

The central ganglion of the nervous system lies in the
proboscis sheath or septum. It supplies the proboscis with nerves and
gives off behind two stout trunks which supply the body (fig. 2).
Each of these trunks is surrounded by muscles, and the
complex retains the old name of ``retinaculum.'' In the male at
least there is also a genital ganglion. Some scattered papillae
may possibly be sense-organs.

The Acanthocephala are dioecious. There is a ``stay'' called
the ``ligament'' which runs from the hinder end of the
proboscis sheath to the posterior end of the body. In this the two testes
lie (fig. 3). Each opens in a vas deferens which bears three
diverticula or vesiculae seminales, and three pairs of cement
glands also are found which pour their secretions through a duct into
the vasa deferentia. The latter unite and end in a penis which opens
posteriorly.



Fig. 3.---An optical section through a male Neorhynchus
clavaeceps, Zed. (from Hamann).

 a, Proboscis.
 b, Proboscis sheath.
 c, Retractor of the proboscis.
 d, Cerebral ganglion.
 f, f, Petractors of the proboscis sheath.
 g, g, Lemnisci, each with two giant nuclei.
 h, Space in sub-cuticular layer of the skin.
 l, Ligament.
 m, m, Testes.
 o, Glands on vas deferens.
 p, Giant nucleus in skin.
 q, Opening of vas deferens.


The ovaries arise like the testes as rounded bodies in the
ligament.  From these masses of ova dehisce into the body
cavity and float in its fluid. Here the eggs are fertilized
and here they segment so that the young embryos are formed
within their mother's body.  The embryos escape into the
uterus through the ``bell,'' a funnel like opening continuous
with the uterus.  Just at the junction of the ``bell''
and the uterus there is a second small opening situated
dorsally. The ``bell'' swallows the matured embryos and
passes them on into the uterus, and thus out of the body via
the oviduct, which opens at one end into the uterus and at
the other on to the exterior at the posterior end of the
body.  But should the ``bell'' swallow any of the ova, or
even one of the younger embryos, these are passed back
into the body cavity through the second and dorsal opening.

The embryo thus passes from the body of the female into
the alimentary canal of the host and leaves this with the
faeces.  It is then, if lucky, eaten by some crustacean, or
insect, more rarely by a fish.  In the stomach it casts
its membranes and becomes mobile, bores through the stomach
walls and encysts usually in the cavity of its first and
invertebrate host. By this time the embryo has all the
organs of the adult perfected save only the reproductive;
these develop only when the first host is swallowed
by the second or final host, in which case the parasite
attaches itself to the wall of the alimentary canal and

A curious feature shared by both larva and adult is the large
size of many of the cells, e.g. the nerve cells and the bell.

O. Hamann has divided the group into three
families, to which a fourth must be added.

(i.) Fam. Echinorhynchidae.This is by far the largest
family and contains the commonest species; the larva of
Echinorhynchus proteus lives in Gammarus pulex and in
small fish, the adult is common in many fresh-water fish: E.
polymorphus, larval host the crayfish, adult host the duck:
E. angustotus occurs as a larva in Asellus aquaticus,
as an adult in the perch, pike and barbel: E. moniliformis
has for its larval host the larvae of the beetle Blaps
mucronata, for its final host certain mice, if introduced
into man it lives well: E. acus is common in whiting: E.
porrigeus in the fin-whale, and E. strumosus in the seal.
A species named E. hominis has been described from a boy.
(ii.) Fam. Gigantorhynchidae. A small family of large forms
with a ringed and flattened body. Gigantorhynchus gigas
lives normally in the pig, but is not uncommon in man in
South Russia, its larval host is the grub of Melolontha
vulgaris, Cetonis auratus, and in America probably of
Lachnosterna arcuata: G. echinodiscus lives in the
intestine of ant-eaters: G. spira in that of the




Fig. 4.
A, The larva of Echinorhynchus proteus from the body cavity of
   Phoxinus laevis, with the proboscis retracted and the whole still
   enclosed in a capsule.
B, A section through the same; a, the invaginated proboscis;
   b, proboscis sheath; c, beginning of the neck; d,
   lemniscus. Highlymagnified (both from Hamann).
king vulture, Sarcorhampus papa, and G.
taeniodes in Dicholopus cristatus, a cariama.

(iii.) Fam. Neorhynchidae. Sexually mature whilst still
in the larval stage. Neorhynchus clavaeceps in Cyprinus
carpio has its larval form in the larva of Sialis
lularia and in the leech Nephelis octcculii: tact
K. agilis is found in Mugil auratus and M. cephalus.

(iv.) Apororhynchidae. With no proboscis. This family contains
the single  species Apororhynchus hemignathi, found near
the anus of Hemignathiis procerus, a Sandwich Island bird.

  Fig. 5. -- Fully formed larva of Echinorhynchus
proteus from the body cavity of Phoxinus laevis
(from Hamann). Highly magnified. a, Proboscis;
b, bulla; c, neck; d, trunk; e, e, lemnisci.

AUTHORITIES. - O. Hamann, O. Jen. Zeitschr. xxv., 1891,
p. 113; Zool.  Anz. xv., 1892, 195; J. Kaiser, Bibl.
Zool. ii., 1893: A. E. Shipley, Quart.  Journ.  Micr.
Sci. Villot, Zool.  Anz. viii., 1885, p. 19. (A. E. S.)

ACANTHUS (the Greek and Latin name for the plant, connected
with ake, a sharp point), a genus of plants belonging to
the natural order Acanthaceae.  The species are natives of
the southern parts of Europe and the warmer parts of Asia and
Africa.  The best-known is Acanthus mollis (brank-ursine, or
bears' breech), a common  species throughout the Mediterranean
region, having large, deeply cut, hairy, shining leaves.  Another
species, Acanthus spinosus, is so called from its spiny
heaves.  They are bold, handsome plants, with stately spikes,
2 to 3 ft. high, of flowers with spiny bracts. A. mollis, A.
lalifolius and A. longifolius  are broad-leaved species; A.
spinosus and A. spinosissimus have narrower, spiny toothed
leaves.  In decoration, the acanthus was first reproduced in
metal, and subsequently carved in stone by the Greeks.  It was
afterwards, with various changes, adopted in all succeeding
styles of architecture as a basis of ornamental decoration.
There are two types, that found in the Acanthus spinosus,
which was followed by the Greeks, and that in the Acanthus
mollis, which seems to have been preferred by the Romans.

ACAPULCO, a city and port of the state of Guerrero on
the Pacific coast of Mexico, 190 m.  S.S.W. of the city
of Mexico, Pop. (1900) 4932.  It is located on a deep,
semicircular bay, almost land-locked, easy of access, and
with so secure an anchorage that vessels can safely lie
alongside the rocks that fringe the shore.  It is the best
harbour on the Pacific coast of Mexico, and it is a port
of Call for steamship lines running between Panama and San
Francisco.  The town is built on a narrow strip of low
land, scarcely half a mile wide, between the shore line and
the lofty mountains that encircle the bay.  There is great
natural beauty in the surroundings, but the mountains render
the town difficult of access from the interior, and give it
an exceptionally hot and unhealthy climate.  The effort to
admit the cooling sea breezes by cutting through the mountains
a passage called the Abra de San Nicolas had some beneficial
effect.  Acapulco was long the most important Mexican port
on the Pacific, and the only depot for the Spanish fleets
plying between Mexico and Spain's East Indian colonies from
1778 until the independence of Mexico, when this trade was
lost.  The town has been chosen as the terminus for two railway
lines seeking a Pacific port--the Interoceanic and the Mexican
Central.  The town suffered considerably from earthquakes in
July and August 1909.  There are exports of hides, cedar and
fruit, and the adjacent district of Tabares produces cotton,
tobacco, cacao, sugar cane, Indian corn, beans and coffee.

ACARNANIA, a district of ancient Greece, bounded on
the W. by the Ionian Sea, on the N. by the Ambracian
Gulf, on the E. and S. by Mt. Thyamus and the Acholous.
The Echinades islands, off the S.W. coast, are gradually
being joined up to the mainland.  Its most populous region
was the plain of the Acholous, commanded by the principal
town Stratus; communication with the coast was impeded by
mountain ridges and lagoons.  Its people long continued in
semi-barbarism, having little intercourse with the rest of
Greece.  In the 5th century B.C. with the aid of Athens
they subdued the Corinthian factories on their coast.  In
391 they submitted to the Spartan king Agesilaus; in 371
they passed under Theban control.  In the Hellenistic age
the Acarnanians were constantly assailed by their Aetolian
neighbours.  On the advice of Cassander they made effective
their ancient cantonal league, apparently after the pattern of
Aetolla.  In the 3rd century they obtained assistance from
the Illyrians, and formed a close alliance with Philip V. of
Macedonia, whom they supported in his Roman wars, their new
federal capital, Lencas, standing a siege in his interest.
For their sympathy with his successor Perseus they were
deprived of Lencas and required to send hostages to Rome
(167). The country was finally desolated by Augustus, who
drafted its inhabitants into Nicopoiis and Patrae.  Acarnania
took a prominent part in the national uprising of 1821; it
is now joined with Aetolia as a nome.  The sites of several
ancient towns in Acarnania are marked by well preserved
walls, especially those of Stratus, Oeniadae and Limnaea.

AUTHORITIES.-Strabo vii. 7, x. 2; Thucydides; Polybius iv.
40; Livy xxxiii. 16-17; Corpus Inscr.  Graecarum, no. 1739; E.
Oberhummer, Akarnanien im Altertum (Munich, 1887); Heuzey, Mt.
Olympe et l'Acarnanie (Paris, 1860). (M. O. B. C.; E. GR.)

ACARUS (from Gr. akari, a mite), a genus of
Arachnids, represented by the cheese mite and other forms.

ACASTUS, in Greek legend, the son of Pohas, king of Iolcus in
Thessaly (Ovid, Metam. vili. 306; Apollonius Rhodius i. 224;
Pindar, Nemea, iv. 54, v. 26). He was a great friend of Jason,
and took part in the Calydonian boar-hunt and the Argonautic
expedition.  After his father's death he instituted splendid
funeral games in his honour, which were celebrated by artists
and poets, such as Stesichorus.  His wife Astydameia (called
Hippolyte in Horace, Odes, iii. 7. 17) fell in love with
Peleus (q.v.), who had taken refuge at Iolcus, but when her
advances were rejected accused him falsely to her husband.
Acastus, to avenge his fancied wrongs, left Peleus asleep
on Mount Pellon, having first hidden his famous sword.  On
awaking, Peleus was attacked by the Centaurs, but saved by
Cheiron.  Having re-covered his sword he returned to Iolcus
and slew Acastus and Astydameia.  Acastus was represented
with his famous horses in the painting of the Argonautic
expedition by Micon in the temple of the Dioscuri at Athens.

ACATALEPSY (Gr. a-, privative, and katalambanein, to
seize), a term used in Scepticism to denote incomprehensibility.

ACAULESCENT (Lat. acaulescens, becoming stemless, from a,
not, and caulis, a stem), a term used of a plant apparently
stemless, as dandelion, the stem being almost suppressed.

ACCA LARENTIA (not Laurentia), in Roman legend, the
wife of the shepherd Faustulus, who saved the lives of the
twins Romulus and Remus after they had been thrown into the
Tiber. She had twelve sons, and on the death of one of them
Romulus took his place, and with the remaining eleven founded
the college of the Arval brothers (Fratres Arvales).  The
tradition that Romulus and Remus were suckled by a wolf has
been explained by the suggestion that Larentia was called
lupa (``courtesan'', literally ``she-wolf'') on account
of her immoral character (Livy i. 4; Ovid, Fasti, iii.
55). According to another account, Larentia was a beautiful
girl, whom Hercules won in a game of dice (Macrobius i. 10;
Plutarch, Romulus, 4, 5, Quaest.  Rom. 35; Aulus Genius
vi. 7). The god advised her to marry the first man she met
in the street, who proved to be a wealthy Etruscan named
Tarutius.  She inherited all his property and bequeathed it to
the Roman people, who out of gratitude instituted in her honour
a yearly festival called Larentalia (Dec. 23). According to
some, Acca Larentia was the mother of the Lares, and, like
Ceres, Teilus, Flora and others, symbolized the fertility
of the earth--in particular the city lands and their crops.

See Mommsen, ``Die echte und die falsche Larentia,'' in
Romische Forschungen, ii. 1879; E. Pais, Ancient
Legends of Roman History (Eng. trans. 1906) whose views
on the subject are criticized by W. W. Fowler in W. H.
D. Rouse's The Year's Work in Classical Studies (1907);
C. Pascal, Studii di alntichita e Mitologia (1896).

ACCELERATION (from Lat. accelerare, to hasten, celer,
quick), hastening or quickening; in mechanics, a term
employed to denote the rate at which the velocity of a
body, whose motion is not uniform, either increases
or decreases. (See MECHANICS and HODOGRAPH.)

ACCENT. The word ``accent'' has its origin in the Lat.
accentus, which in its turn is a literal translation of
the Gr. prosodia. The early Greek grammarians used this
term for the musical accent which characterized their own
language, but later the term became specialized for quantity
in metre, whence comes the Eng. prosody. Besides various
later developments of usage it is important to observe that
``accent'' is used in two different and often contrasted
senses in connexion with language.  In all languages
there are two kinds of accent: (1) musical chromatic or
pitch accent; (2) emphatic or stress accent.  The former
indicates differences in musical pitch between one sound
and another in speech, the latter the difference between
one syllable and another which is occasioned by emitting
the breath in the production of one syllable with greater
energy than is employed for the other syllables of the same
word.  These two senses, it is to be noticed, are different
from the common usage of the word in the statement that
some one talks with a foreign or with a vulgar accent.  In
these cases, no doubt, both differences of intonation and
differences of stress may be included in the statement, but
other elements are frequently no less marked, e.g. the
pronunciation of t and d as real dentals, whereas the
English sounds so described are really produced not against
the teeth but against their sockets, the inability to produce
the interdental th whether breathed as in thin or voiced
as in this and its representation by d or z, the
production of o as a uniform sound instead of one ending as
in English in a slight u sound, or such dialect changes as
lydy (laidy) for lady, or toime for time (taime).

In different languages the relations between pitch and stress
differ very greatly.  In some the pitch or musical accent
predominates.  In such languages if signs are employed to
mark the position of the chief accent in the word it will
be the pitch and not the stress accent which will be thus
indicated.  Amongst the languages of ancient times Sanskrit
and Greek both indicate by signs the position of the chief
pitch accent in the word, and the same method has been
employed in modern times for languages in which pitch accent
is welf marked, as it is, for example in Lithuanian, the
language still spoken by some two millions of people on the
frontier between Prussia and Russia in the neighbourhood
of Konigsberg and Vilna.  Swedish also has a well-marked
musical accent.  Modern Greek has changed from pitch to
stress, the stress being generally laid upon the same
syllable in modern as bore the pitch accent in ancient Greek.

In the majority of European languages, however, stress is
more conspicuous than pitch, and there is plenty of evidence
to show that the original language from which Greek, Latin,
Celtic, Teutonic, Slavonic and other languages of Europe are
descended, possessed stress accent also in a marked degree.
To the existence of this accent must be attributed a large
part of the phenomena known as Ablaut or Gradation (see
INDO-EUROPEAN LANGUAGES).  In modern languages we can see
the same principle at work making Acton out of the O. Eng.
(Anglo-Saxon) ac-tun (oak-town), and in more recent times
producing the contrast between New Town and Newton. In
French, stress is less marked than it is in English, but
here also there is evidence to show that in the development
from Latin to French a very strong stress accent must have
existed.  The natural result of producing one syllable of a
word with greater energy than the others is that the other
syllables have a less proportion of breath assigned to
them and therefore tend to become indistinct or altogether
inaudible.  Thus the strong stress accent existing in the
transition period between Latin and French led to the curtailing
of long Latin words like latrocinium or hospitale into
the words which we have borrowed from French into English
as larceny and hotel. It will be observed that the first
syllable and that which bears the accent are the two which
best withstand change, though the strong tendency in English
to stress heavily the first syllable bids fair ultimately
to oust the e in the pronunciation of larceny. No such
changes arise when a strong pitch accent is accompanied
by a weaker stress accent, and hence languages like
ancient Sanskrit and ancient Greek, where such conditions
existed, preserve fuller forms than their sister languages
or than even their own descendants, when stress takes the
place of pitch as the more important element in accent.

In both pitch and stress accent different gradations may be
observed.  In pitch, the accent may be uniform, rising or
falling.  Or there may be combinations of rising and falling
or of falling and rising accents upon the same syllable.
In ancient Greek, as is well known, three accents are
distinguished--(1) the acute ('), a rising accent; (2) the
grave (`), apparently merely the indication that in particular
positions in the sentence the acute accent is not used where
it would occur in the isolated word; and (3) the circumflex,
which, as its form (^) shows, and as the ancient grammarians
inform us, is a combination of the rising and the falling
accent upon the same syllable, this syllable being always
long.  Different Greek dialects, however, varied the syllables
of the word on which the accent occurred, Aeolic Greek,
for example, never putting the acute on the last syllable
of a word, while Attic Greek had many words so accented.

The pitch accent of the Indo-European languages was originally
free, i.e. might occur on any syllable of a word, and
this condition of things is still found in the earliest
Sanskrit literature. But in Greek before historical times
the accent had become limited to the last three syllables
of a word, so that a long word like the Homeric genitive
feromenoio could in no circumstances be accented on
either of its first two syllables, while if the final
syllable was long, as in the accusative plural feromenous,
the accent could go back only to the second syllable from
the end. As every vowel has its own natural pitch, and a
frequent interchange between e ( a high vowel) and o
(a low vowel) occurs in the Indo-European languages, it has
been suggested that e originally went with the highest
pitch accent, while o appeared in syllables of a lower
pitch.  But if there is any foundation for the theory, which
is by no means certain, its effects have been distorted
and modified by all manner of analogical processes.  Thus
poimen with acute accent and daimon with the acute accent
on the preceding syllable would correspond to the rule, so
would aletes and epos, but there are many exceptions
like odos where the acute accent accompanies an o
vowel.  Somewhat similar distinctions characterize syllables
which are stressed.  The strength of the expiration may be
greatest either at the beginning, the end or the middle of
the syllable, and, according as it is so, the accent is a
failing, a rising, or a rising and falling one. Syllables in
which the stress is produced continuously whether increasing
or decreasing are called single-pointed syllables, those in
which a variation in the stress occurs without being strong
enough to break the syllable into two are called double-pointed
syllables.  These last occur in some English dialects, but
are commonest in languages like Swedish and Lithuanian, which
have a ``sing-song'' pronunciation.  It is often not easy
to decide whether a syllable is double-pointed or whether
what we hear is really two-single-pointed syllables.  There
is no separate notation for stress accent, but the acute (')
is used for the increasing, the grave (`) for the decreasing
stress, and the circumflex (^) for the rising and falling
(increasing and decreasing) and (@) for the opposite.  A
separate notation is much to be desired, as the nature of the
two accents is so different, and could easily be devised by
using (@) for the falling, (') for the rising stress, and
(@) for the combination of the two in one syllable.  This
would be clearer than the upright stroke (|) preceding the
stressed syllable, which is used in some phonetic works.

The relation between the two accents in the same language
at the same time is a subject which requires further
investigation.  It is generally assumed that the chief stress
and the chief pitch in a word coincide, but this is by no
means certain for all cases, though the incidence of the chief
stress accent in modern Greek upon the same syllable as had
the chief pitch accent in ancient times suggests that the
two did frequently fall upon the same syllable.  On the other
hand, in words like the Sanskrit sapta, the Gr. epta,
the pitch accent which those languages indicate is upon a
syllable which certainly, in the earliest times at least,
did not possess the principal stress.  For forms in other
languages, like the Lat. septem or the Gothic sibun, show
that the a of the final syllables in Sanskrit and Greek is
the representative of a reduced syllable in which, even in the
earliest times, the nasal alone existed (see under N for the
history of these so-called sonant nasals).  It is possible that
sporadic changes of accent, as in the Gr. meter compared
with the Sanskrit mata, is owing to the shifting of the
pitch accent to the same syllable as the stress occupied.

There is no lack of evidence to show that the stress accent
also may shift its position in the history of a language from
one syllable to another.  In prehistoric times the stress
in Latin must have rested upon the first syllable in all
cases.  Only on this hypothesis can be explained forms like
peperci (perfect of parco) and collido (a compound
of laedo). In historical times, when the stress in Latin
was on the second syllable from the end of the word if that
syllable was long, or on the third syllable from the end if
the second from the end was short, we should have expected
to find *peparci and *collaedo, for throughout the
historical period the stress rested in these words upon the
second syllable from the end.  The causes for the change of
position are not always easy to ascertain.  In words of four
syllables with a long penult and words of five syllables
with a short penult there probably developed a secondary
accent which in course of time replaced the earlier accent
upon the first syllable.  But the number of such long words
in Latin is comparatively small.  It is no less possible
that relations between the stress and pitch accents were
concerned.  For unless we are to regard the testimony of
the ancient Latin grammarians as altogether untrustworthy
there was at least in classical Latin a well-marked pitch
as well as a stress accent.  This question, which had
long slumbered, has been revived by Dr J. Vendryes in
his treatise entitled Recherches sur l'histoire et les
effets de l'intensite initiale en latin (Paris, 1902).

In English there is a tendency to throw the stress on to the
first syllable, which leads in time to the modification of
borrowed words. Thus throughout the 18th century there was
a struggle going on over the word balcony, which earlier
was pronounced balcony. Swift is the first author quoted
for the pronunciation balcony. and Cowper's balcony
in ``John Gilpin'' is among the latest instances of the old
pronunciation.  Disregarding the Latin quantity of orator
and senator, English by throwing the stress on the first
syllable has converted them into orator and senator,
while Scots lawyers speak also of a curator. How far
French influence plays a part here is not easy to say.

Besides the accent of the syllable and of the word, which
have been already discussed, there remains the accent of
the sentence. Here the problem is much more complicated.
The accent of a word, whether pitch or stress, may be
considerably modified in the sentence.  From earliest times
some words have become parasitic or enclitic upon other
words.  Pronouns more than most words are modified from
this cause, but conjunctions like the Gr. te (``and''),
the Lat. qiie, have throughout their whole history been
enclitic upon the preceding word.  A very important word
may be enclitic, as in English don't, shan't. It is to be
remembered that the unit of language is rather the sentence
than the word, and that the form which is given to the word
in the dictionary is very often not the form which it takes
in actual speech.  The divisions of words in speech are quite
different from the divisions on the printed page. Sanskrit
alone amongst languages has consistently recognized this, and
preserves in writing the exact combinations that are spoken.

Accent, whether pitch or stress, can be utilized in the sentence
to express a great variety of meanings.  Thus in English
a sentence like You rode to Newmarket yesterday, which
contains five words, may be made to express five different
statements by putting the stress upon each of the words in
turn.  By putting the stress on you the person addressed
is marked out as distinct from certain others, by putting
it upon rode other means of locomotion to Newmarket are
excluded, and so on.  With the same order of words five
interrogative sentences may also be expressed, and a third
series of exclamatory sentences expressing anger, incredulity,
&c., may be obtained from the same words.  It is to be noticed
that for these two series a different intonation, a different
musical (pitch) accent appears from that which is found in the
same words when employed to make a matter-of-fact statement.

In languages like Chinese, which have neither compound words
nor inflection, accent plays a very important part.  As the
words are all monosyllabic, stress could obviously not be so
important as pitch as a help to distinguish different senses
attached to the same syllable, and in no other language is
variety of pitch so well developed as in Chinese.  In languages
which, like English, show comparatively little pitch accent
it is to be noticed that the sentence tends to develop a more
musical character under the influence of emotion. The voice
is raised and at the same time greater stress is generally
employed when the speaker is carried away by emotion, though the
connexion is not essential and strong emotion may be expressed
by a lowering as well as by a raising of the voice.  In either
case, however, the stress will be greater than the normal.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.--H.  Sweet, Primer of Phonetics (1890,
now in 3rd edition), sec.  96 ff., History of English Sounds
(1888), sec.  110 ff., and other works; E. Sievers, Grundzuge
der Phonetik (1893), sec.  532 ff.; O. Jespersen, Lehrbuch
der Phonetik (1904), an abbreviated German translation of
the author's larger work in Danish, sec.  216 ff.  The books
of Sievers and Jespersen give (especially Sievers) full
references to the literature of the subject.  For the accent
system of the Indo-European languages see ``Betonung'' in
Brugmann's Grundriss der vergleichenden Grammatik der
indogermanischen Sprachen, vol. i. (1897), or, with considerable
modifications, his Kurze vergleichende Grammatik der
idg.  Sprachen (1902), sec. sec.  32-65 and 343-350. (P. Gi.)

ACCEPTANCE (Lat. acceptare, frequentative form of accipere,
to receive), generally, a receiving or acknowledgment of
receipt; in law, the act by which a person binds himself
to comply with the request contained in a bill of exchange
(q.v.), addressed to him by the drawer.  In all cases it
is understood to be a promise to pay the bill in money,
the law not recognizing an acceptance in which the promise
is to pay in some other way, e.g. partly in money and
partly by another bill.  Acceptance may be either general or
qualified.  A general acceptance is an engagement to pay
the bill strictly according to its tenor, and is made by
the drawee subscribing his name, with or without the word
``accepted,'' at the bottom of the bill, or across the face
of it. Qualified acceptance may be a promise to pay on a
contingency occurring, e.g. on the sale of certain goods
consigned by the drawer to the acceptor.  No contingency
is allowed to be mentioned in the body of the bill, but a
qualified acceptance is quite legal, and equally binding with
a general acceptance upon the acceptor when the contingency
bas occurred.  It is also qualified acceptance where the
promise is to pay only part of the sum mentioned in the
bill, or to pay at a different time or place from those
specified.  As a qualified acceptance is so far a disregard of
the drawer's order, the holder is not obliged to take it; and
if he chooses to take it he must give notice to antecedent
parties, acting at his own risk if they dissent.  In all
cases acceptance involves the signature of the acceptor
either by himself or by some person duly authorized on his
behalf.  A bill can be accepted in the first instance only
by the person or persons to whom it is addressed; but if
he or they fail to do so, it may, after being protested for
non-acceptance, be accepted by some one else ``supra protest,''
for the sake of the honour of one or more of the parties
concerned in it, and he thereupon acquires a claim against
the drawer and all those to whom he could have resorted.

ACCEPTILATION (from Lat. acceptilatio), in Roman and Scots
law, a verbal release of a verbal obligation.  This formal mode
of extinguishing an obligation contracted verbally received
its name from the book-keeping term acceptilatio, entering a
receipt, i.e. carrying it to credit.  The words conveying
the release had to correspond to, or strictly cover, the
expressed obligation.  Figuratively, in theology, the word
acceptilation means free remission or forgiveness of sins.

ACCESS (Lat. accessus), approach, or the means of
approaching.  In law, the word is used in various connexions.
The presumption of a child's legitimacy is negatived if it be
proved that a husband has not had access to his wife within
such a period of time as would admit of his being the father.
(See LEGITIMACY.) In the law of easements, every person
who has land adjoining a public road or a public navigable
river has a right of access to it from his land.  So, also,
every person has a right of access to air and light from
an ancient window.  For the right of access of parents to
children under the guardianship of the court, see INFANT.

ACCESSION (from Lat. accedere, to go to, to approach),
in law, a method of acquiring property adopted from Roman
law, by which, in things that have a close connexion with
or dependence on one another, the property of the principal
draws after it the property of the accessory, according
to the principle, accessio cedet principali. Accession
may take place either in a natural way, such as the growth
of fruit or the pregnancy of animals, or in an artificial
way.  The various methods may be classified as (1) land to
land by accretion or alluvion; (2) moveables to land (see
FIXTURES); (3) moveables to moveables; (4) moveables added
to by the art or industry of man; this may be by specification,
as when wine is made out of grapes, or by confusion, or
commixture, which is the mixing together of liquids or solids,
respectively.  In the case of industrial accession ownership is
determined according as the natural or manufactured substance
is of the more importance, and, in general, compensation is
payable to the person who has been dispossessed of his property.

In a historical or constitutional sense, the term
``accession'' is applied to the coming to the throne of a
dynasty or line of sovereigns or of a single sovereign.

``Accession'' sometimes likewise signifies consent or
acquiescence.  Thus, in the bankruptcy law of Scotland,
where there is a settlement by a trust-deed, it is accepted
on the part of each creditor by a ``deed of accession.''

ACCESSORY, a person guilty of a felonious offence, not as
principal, but by participation; as by advice, command,
aid or concealment.  In certain crimes, there can be no
accessories; all concerned being principals, whether present
or absent at the time of their commission.  These are
treason, and all offences below the degree of felony, as
specified in the Offences against the Person Act 1861.

There are two kinds of accessories -- before the fact, and
after it.  The first is he who commands or procures another
to commit felony, and is not present himself; for if he be
present, he is a principal.  The second is he who receives,
harbours, assists, or comforts any man that has done murder or
felony, whereof he has knowledge.  An accessory before the
fact is liable to the same punishment as the principal; and
there is now indeed no practical difference between such an
accessory and a principal in regard either to indictment,
trial or punishment. Accessories after the fact are in general
punishable with imprisonment (with or without hard labour) for
a period not exceeding two years, but in the case of murder
punishable by penal servitude for life, or not less than three
years, or by imprisonment (with or without hard labour) to the
extent of two years. The law of Scotland makes no distinction
between the accessory to any crime and the principal (see
ART AND PART). Except in the case of treason, accession
after the fact is not noticed by the law of Scotland unless
as an element of evidence to prove previous accession.

ACCIAJUOLI, DONATO (1428-1478), Italian scholar, was born at
Florence in 1428.  He was famous for his learning, especially
in Greek and mathematics, and for his services to his native
state.  Having previously been entrusted with several
important embassies, he became Gonfalonier of Florence in
1473.  He died at Milan in 1478, when on his way to Paris
to ask the aid of Louis XI. on behalf of the Florentines
against Pope Sixtus IV. His body was taken back to
Florence, and buried in the church of the Carthusians at
the public expense, and his daughters were portioned by his
fellow-citizens, the fortune he left being, owing to his
probity and disinterestedness, very small. He wrote a Latin
translation of some of Plutarch's Lives (Florence, 1478);
Commentaries on Aristotle's Ethics and Politics; and the
lives of Hannibal, Scipio and Charlemagne.  In the work on
Aristotle he had the co-operation of his master Argyropulus.

ACCIDENCE (a mis-spelling of ``accidents,'' from the Latin
neuter plural accidentia, casual events), the term for
the grammatical changes to which words are subject in their
inflections as to gender, number, tense and case.  It is
also used to denote a book containing the first principles
of grammar, and so of the rudiments of any subject or art.

ACCIDENT (from Lat. accidere, to happen), a word of widely
variant meanings, usually something fortuitous and unexpected;
a happening out of the ordinary course of things.  In the
law of tort, it is defined as ``an occurrence which is due
neither to design nor to negligence''; in equity, as ``such
an unforeseen event, misfortune, loss, act or omission, as
is not the result of any negligence or misconduct.'' So, in
criminal law, ``an effect is said to be accidental when the
act by which it is caused is not done with the intention
of causing it, and when its occurrence as a conseiguence
of such act is not so probable that a person of ordinary
prudence ought, under the circumstances, to take reasonable
precaution against it'' (Stephen, Digest of Criminal Law,
art. 210).The word may also have in law the more extended
meaning of an unexpected occurrence, whether caused by
any one's negligence or not, as in the Fatal Accidents Act
1846, Notice of Accidents Act 1894.  See also CONTRACT,
CRIMINAL LAW, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, INSURANCE, TORT, &c.

In logic an ``accident'' is a quality which belongs to a
subject but not as part of its essence (in Aristotelian
language kata sumbebekos, the scholastic per accidens).
Essential attributes are necessarily, or causally, connected
with the subject, e.g. the sum of the angles of a triangle;
accidents are not deducible from the nature, or are not part
of the necessary connotation, of the subject, e.g. the
area of a triangle.  It follows that increased knowledge,
e.g. in chemistry, may show that what was thought to
be an accident is really an essential attribute, or vice
versa.  It is very generally held that, in reality, there is
no such thing as an accident, inasmuch as complete knowledge
would establish a causal connexion for all attributes.  An
accident is thus merely an unexplained attribute.  Accidents
have been classed as (1) ``inseparable,'' i.e. universally
present, though no causal connexion is established, and (2)
``separable,'' where the connexion is neither causally explained
nor universal. Propositions expressing a relation between
a subject and an accident are classed as ``accidental,''
``real'' or ``ampliative,'' as opposed to ``verbal'' or
``analytical,'' which merely express a known connexion,
e.g. between a subject and its connotation (q.v.).

ACCIDENTALISM, a term used (1) in philosophy for any system
of thought which denies the causal nexus and maintains that
events succeed one another haphazard or by chance (not in
the mathematical but in the popular sense).  In metaphysics,
accidentalism denies the doctrine that everything occurs
or results from a definite cause.  In this connexion it is
synonymous with Tychism (tuchu, chance), a term used by
C. S. Peirce for the theories which make chance an objective
factor in the process of the Universe.  Opponents of this
accidentalism maintain that what seems to be the result
of chance is in reality due to a cause or causes which,
owing to the lack of imagination, knowledge or scientific
instruments, we are unable to detect. In ethics the term is
used, like indeterminism, to denote the theory that mental
change cannot always be ascribed to previously ascertained
psychological states, and that volition is not causally
related to the motives involved.  An example of this theory
is the doctrine of the liberum arbitrium indifferentiae
(``liberty of indifference''), according to which the choice
of two or more alternative possibilities is affected neither
by contemporaneous data of an ethical or prudential kind
nor by crystallized habit (character). (2) In painting, the
term is used for the effect produced by accidental lights
(Ruskin, Modern Painters, I. II. 4, iii. sec.  4, 287).
(3) In medicine, it stands for the hypothesis that disease is
only an accidental modification of the healthy condition, and
can, therefore, be avoided by modifying external conditions.

ACCIUS, a Latin poet of the 16th century, to whom
is attributed a paraphrase of Aesop's Fables, of
which Julius Scaliger speaks with great praise.

ACCIUS, LUCIUS, Roman tragic poet, the son of a freedman,
was born at Pisaurum in Umbria, in 170 B.C. The year of
his death is unknown, but he must have lived to a great
age, since Cicero (Brutus, 28) speaks of having conversed
with him on literary matters.  He was a prolific writer and
enjoyed a very high reputation (Horace, Epistles, ii. 1,
56; Cicero, Pro Plancio, 24). The titles and considerable
fragments (about 700 lines) of some fifty plays have been
preserved.  Most of these were free translations from the
Greek, his favourite subjects being the legends of the
Trojan war and the house of Pelops.  The national history,
however, furnished the theme of the Brutus and Decius,
---the expulsion of the Tarquins and the self-sacrifice of
Publius Decius Mus the younger.  The fragments are written
in vigorous language and show a lively power of description.

Accius wrote other works of a literary character:
Didascalicon and Pragmaticon libri, treatises
in verse on the history of Greek and Roman poetry, and
dramatic art in particular; Parerga and Praxidica
(perhaps identical) on agriculture; and an Annales. He
also introduced innovations in orthography and grammar.

See Boissier, Le Poete Accius, 1856; L. Muller,
De Accii fabulis Disputatio (1890); Ribbeck,
Geschichte der romischen Dichtung (1892); editions
of the tragic fragments by Ribbeck (1897), of the others
by Bahrens (1886); Plessis, Poesue Latine (1909).

ACCLAMATION (Lat. acclamatio, a shouting at), in
deliberative or electoral assemblies, a spontaneous shout of
approval or praise.  Acclamation is thus the adoption of a
resolution or the passing of a vote of confidence or choice
unanimously, in direct distinction from a formal ballot or
division.  In the Roman senate opinions were expressed and
votes passed by acclamation in such forms as Omnes, omnes,
Aequum est, Justum est, &c.; and the praises of the emperor
were celebrated in certain pre-arranged sentences, which
seem to have been chanted by the whole body of senators.  In
ecclesiastical councils vote by acclamation is very common,
the question being usually put in the form, placet or non
placet. The Sacred College has sometimes elected popes by
acclamation, when the cardinals simultaneously and without
any previous consultation ``acclaimed'' one of their number as
pontiff.  A further ecclesiastical use of the word is in its
application to set forms of praise or thanksgiving in church
services, the stereotyped responses of the congregation.
In modern parliamentary usage a motion is carried by
acclamation when, no amendment being proposed, approval
is expressed by shouting such words as Aye or Agreed.

ACCLIMATIZATION, the process of adaptation by which animals
and plants are gradually rendered capable of surviving and
flourishing in countries remote from their original habitats,
or under meteorological conditions different from those which
they have usually to endure, and at first injurious to them.

The subject of acclimatization is very little understood,
and some writers have even denied that it can ever take
place.  It is often confounded with domestication or
with naturalization; but these are both very different
phenomena.  A domesticated animal or a cultivated plant
need not necessarily be acclimatized; that is, it need not
be capable of enduring the severity of the seasons without
protection.  The canary bird is domesticated but not
acclimatized, and many of our most extensively cultivated
plants are in the same category.  A naturalized animal or
plant, on the other hand, must be able to withstand all
the vicissitudes of the seasons in its new home, and it may
therefore be thought that if must have become acclimatized.
But in many, perhaps most cases of naturalization (see
Appendix below) there is no evidence of a gradual adaptation
to new conditions which were at first injurious, and this is
essential to the idea of acclimatization. On the contrary,
many species, in a new country and under somewhat different
climatic conditions, seem to find a more congenial abode than
in their native land, and at once flourish and increase in
it to such an extent as often to exterminate the indigenous
inhabitants.  Thus L. Agassiz (in his work on Lake Superior)
tells us that the roadside weeds of the north-eastern United
States, to the number of 130 species, are all European,
the native weeds having disappeared westwards; while in New
Zealand there are, according to T. Kirk (Transactions of
the New Zealand Institute, vol. ii. p. 131), no less than
250 species of naturalized plants, more than 100 of which
spread widely over the country and often displace the native
vegetation.  Among animals, the European rat, goat and pig
are naturalized in New Zealand, where they multiply to such
an extent as to injure and probably exterminate many native
productions.  In none of these cases is there any indication
that acclimatization was necessary or ever took place.

On the other hand, the fact that an animal or plant cannot
be naturalized is no proof that it is not acclimatized.
It has been shown by C. Darwin that, in the case of most
animals and plants in a state of nature, the competition of
other organisms is a far more efficient agency in limiting
their distribution than the mere influence of climate.  We
have a proof of this in the fact that so few, comparatively,
of our perfectly hardy garden plants ever run wild; and even
the most persevering attempts to naturalize them usually
fail.  Alphonse de Candolle (Geographic botanique, p.
798) informs us that several botanists of Patis, Geneva,
and especially of Montpellier, have sown the seeds of many
hundreds of species of exotic hardy plants, in what appeared
to be the most favourable situations, but that in hardly a
single case has any one of them become naturalized.  Attempts
have also been made to naturalize continental insects in
Britain, in places where the proper food-plants abound and
the conditions seem generally favourable, but in no case
do they seem to have succeeded.  Even a plant like the
potato, so largely cultivated and so perfectly hardy, has not
established itself in a wild state in any part of Europe.

Different Degrees of Climatal Adaptation in Animals and
Plants.---Plants differ greatly from animals in the closeness
of their adaptation to meteorological conditions.  Not only
will most tropical plants refuse to live in a temperate
climate, but many species are seriously injured by removal a
few degrees of latitude beyond their natural limits.  This is
probably due to the fact, established by the experiments of
A. C. Becquerel, that plants possess no proper temperature,
but are wholly dependent on that of the surrounding medium.

Animals, especially the higher forms, are much less sensitive
to change of temperature, as shown by the extensive range
from north to south of many species.  Thus, the tiger
ranges from the equator to northern Asia as far as the river
Amur, and to the isothermal of 32 deg.  Fahr.  The mountain
sparrow (Fasser montana) is abundant in Java and
Singapore in a uniform equatorial climate, and also inhabits
Britain and a considerable portion of northern Europe.
It is true that most terrestrial animals are restricted to
countries not possessing a great range of temperature or
very diversified climates, but there is reason to believe
that this is due to quite a different set of causes, such
as the presence of enemies or deficiency of appropriate
food.  When suppllad with food and partially protected from
enemies, they often show a wonderful capacity of enduring
climates very different from that in which they originally
flourished.  Thus, the horse and the domestic fowl, both
natives of very warm countries, flourish without special
protection in almost every inhabited portion of the
globe.  The parrot tribe form one of the most pre-eminently
tropical groups of birds, only a few species extending into
the warmer temperate regions; yet even the most exclusively
tropical genera are by no means delicate birds as regards
climate.  In the Annals and Magazine of Natural History
for 1868 (p. 381) is a most interesting account, by Charles
Buxton, of the naturalization of parrots at Northrops Hall,
Norfolk.  A considerable number of African and Amazonian
parrots, Bengal parroquets, four species of white and rose
crested cockatoos, and two species of crimson lories, remained
at large for many years.  Several of these birds bred, and
they almost all lived in the woods the whole year through,
refusing to take shelter in a house constructed for their
use.  Even when the thermometer fell 6 deg.  below zero, all
appeared in good spirits and vigorous health.  Some of these
birds have lived thus exposed for many years, enduring the
English cold easterly winds, rain, hail and snow, all through
the winter--a marvellous contrast to the equable equatorial
temperature (hardly ever less than 70 deg. ) to which many of
them had been accustomed for the first year or years of their
existence.  Similarly the recent experience of zoological
gardens, particularly in the case of parrots and monkeys, shows
that, excluding draughts, exposure to changes of temperature
without artificial heat is markedly beneficial as compared
with the older method of strict protection from cold.

Hardly any group of Mammalia is more exclusively tropical
than the Quadrumana, yet, if other conditions are favourable,
some of them can withstand a considerable degree of cold.
Semnopithecus schistaceus was found by Captain Hutton at an
elevation of 11,000 feet in the Himalayas, leaping actively
among fir-trees whose branches were laden with snow-wreaths.
In Abyssinia a troop of dog-faced baboons was observed by W. T.
Blanford at 9000 feet above the sea.  We may therefore conclude
that the restriction of the monkey tribe to warm latitudes is
probably determined by other causes than temperature alone.

Similar indications are given by the fact of closely allied
species inhabiting very extreme climates.  The recently extinct
Siberian mammoth and woolly rhinoceros were closely allied to
species now inhabiting tropical regions exclusively.  Wolves
and foxes are found alike in the coldest and hottest parts
of the earth, as are closely allied species of falcons, owls,
sparrows and numerous genera of waders and aquatic birds.

A consideration of these and many analogous facts might induce
us to suppose that, among the higher animals at least, there
is little constitutional adaptation to climate, and that in
their case acclimatization is not required.  But there are
numerous examples of domestic animals which show that such
adaptation does exist in other cases.  The yak of Thibet cannot
long survive in the plains of India, or even on the hills
below a certain altitude; and that this is due to climate,
and not to the increased density of the atmosphere, is shown
by the fact that the same animal appears to thrive well in
Europe, and even breeds there readily.  The Newfoundland
dog will not live in India, and the Spanish breed of fowls
in this country suffer more from frost than most others.
When we get lower in the scale the adaptation is often more
marked.  Snakes, which are so abundant in warm countries,
diminish rapidly as we go north, and wholly cease at lat.
62 deg. .  Most insects are also very susceptible to cold, and
seem to be adapted to very narrow limits of temperature.

From the foregoing facts and observations we may conclude,
firstly, that some plants and many animals are not
constitutionally adapted to the climate of their native country
only, but are capable of enduring and flourishing under
a more or less extensive range of temperature and other
climatic conditions; and, secondly, that most plants and
some animals are, more or less closely, adapted to climates
similar to those of their native habitats.  In order to
domesticate or naturalize the former class in countries not
extremely differing from that from which the species was
brought, it will not be necessary to acclimatize, in the
strict sense of the word.  In the case of the latter class,
however, acclimatization is a necessary preliminary to
naturalization, and in many cases to useful domestication,
and we have therefore to inquire whether it is possible.

Acclimatization by Individual Adaptation.---It is evident
that acclimatization may occur (if it occurs at all) in two
ways, either by modifying the constitution of the individual
submitted to the new conditions, or by the production of
offspring which may be better adapted to those conditions
than their parents.  The alteration of the constitution
of individuals in this direction is not easy to detect,
and its possibility has been denied by many writers.  C.
Darwin believed, however, that there were indications that
it occasionally occurred in plants, where it can be best
observed, owing to the circumstance that so many plants are
propagated by cuttings or buds, which really continue the
existence of the same individual almost indefinitely.  He
adduced the example of vines taken to the West Indies from
Madeira, which have been found to succeed better than those
taken directly from France.  But in most cases habit, however
prolonged, appears to have little effect on the constitution of
the individual, and the fact has no doubt led to the opinion
that acclimatization is impossible.  There is indeed little
or no evidence to show that any animal to which a new climate
is at first prejudicial can be so acclimatized by habit that,
after subjection to it for a few or many seasons, it may
live as healthily and with as little care as in its native
country; yet we may, on general principles, believe that under
proper conditions such an acclimatization would take place.

Acclimatization by Variation.---A mass of evidence exists
showing that variations of every conceivable kind occur
among the offspring of all plants and animals, and that,
in particular, constitutional variations are by no means
uncommon.  Among cultivated plants, for example, hardier and
more tender varieties often arise.  The following cases are
given by C. Darwin:-Among the numerous fruit-trees raised
in North America some are well adapted to the climate of the
northern States and Canada, while others only succeed well
in the southern States. Adaptation of this kind is sometimes
very close, so that, for example, few English varieties of
wheat will thrive in Scotland. Seed-wheat from India produced
a miserable crop when planted by the Rev. M. J. Berkeley
on land which would have produced a good crop of English
wheat.  Conversely, French wheat taken to the West Indies
produced only barren spikes, while native wheat by its side
yielded an enormous harvest.  Tobacco in Sweden, raised
from home-grown seed, ripens its seeds a month earlier
than plants grown from foreign seed.  In Italy, as long as
orange trees were propagated by grafts, they were tender;
but after many of the trees were destroyed by the severe
frosts of 1709 and 1763, plants were raised from seed, and
these were found to be hardier and more productive than the
former kinds. Where plants are raised from seed in large
quantities, varieties always occur differing in constitution,
as well as others differing in form or colour; but the
former cannot be perceived by us unless marked out by their
behaviour under exceptional conditions, as in the following
cases.  After the severe winter of 1860-1861 if was observed
that in a large bed of araucarias some plants stood quite
unhurt among numbers killed around them. In C. Darwin's
garden two rows of scarlet runners were entirely killed by
frost, except three plants, which had not even the tips of
their leaves browned.  A very excellent example is to be
found in Chinese history, according to E. R. Huc, who, in his
L' Empire chinois (tom. ii. p. 359), gives the following
extract from the Memoirs of the Emperor Khang:---``On the
1st day of the 6th moon I was walking in some fields where
rice had been sown to be ready for the harvest in the 9th
moon.  I observed by chance a stalk of rice which was already in
ear.  It was higher than all the rest, and was ripe enough
to be gathered. I ordered it to be brought to me.  The grain
was very fine and well grown, which gave me the idea to
keep it for a trial, and see if the following year it would
preserve its precocity.  It did so. All the stalks which came
from it showed ear before the usual time, and were ripe in
the 6th moon.  Each year has multiplied the produce of the
preceding, and for thirty years it is this rice which has
been served at my table.  The grain is elongate and of a
reddish colour, but it has a sweet smell and very pleasant
taste.  It is called Vu-mi, Imperial rice, because it was
first cultivated in my gardens.  It is the only sort which
can ripen north of the great wall, where the winter ends
late and begins very early; but in the southern provinces,
where the climate is milder and the land more fertile, two
harvests a year may be easily obtained, and it is for me
a sweet reflection to have procured this advantage for my
people.'' Huc adds his testimony that this kind of rice
flourishes in Manchuria, where no other will grow.  We
have here, therefore, a perfect example of acclimatization
by means of a spontaneous constitutional variation.

That this kind of adaptation may be carried on step by step to
more and more extreme climates is illustrated by the following
examples.  Sweet-peas raised in Calcutta from seed imported
from England rarely blossom, and never yield seed; plants
from French seed flower better, but are still sterile;
but those raised from Darjeeling seed (originally imported
from England) both flower and seed profusely.  The peach
is believed to have been tender, and to have ripened its
fruit with difficulty, when first introduced into Greece;
so that (as Darwin observes) in travelling northward during
two thousand years it must have become much hardier.  Sir J.
Hooker ascertained the average vertical range of flowering
plants in the Himalayas to be 4000 ft., while in some cases
if extended to 8000 ft.  The same species can thus endure a
great difference of temperature; but the important fact is,
that the individuals have become acclimatized to the altitude
at which they grow, so that seeds gathered near the upper
limit of the range of a species will be more hardy than those
gathered near the lower limit.  This was proved by Hooker
to be the case with Himalayan conifers and rhododendrons,
raised in Britain from seed gathered at different altitudes.

Among animals exactly analogous facts occur.  When geese
were first introduced into Bogota they laid few eggs at long
intervals, and few of the young survived.  By degrees the
fecundity improved, and in about twenty years became equal
to what it is in Europe.  The same author tells us that,
according to Garcilaso, when fowls were first introduced
into Peru they were not fertile, whereas now they are
as much so as in Europe. C. Darwin adduced the following
examples.  Merino sheep bred at the Cape of Good Hope have
been found far better adapted for India than those imported
from England; and while the Chinese variety of the Ailanthus
silk-moth is quite hardy, the variety found in Bengal will
only flourish in warm latitudes.  C. Darwin also called
attention to the circumstance that writers of agricultural
works generally recommend that animals should be removed
from one district to another as little as possible.  This
advice occurs even in classical and Chinese agricultural
books as well as in those of our own day, and proves
that the close adaptation of each variety or breed to the
country in which if originated has always been recognized.

Constitutional Adaptation often accompanied by External
Modification.--Although in some cases no perceptible
alteration of form or structure occurs when constitutional
adaptation to Climate has taken place, in others it
is very marked.  C. Darwin collected a large number of
cases in his Animals and Plants under Domestication.

In his Contributions to the Theory of Natural Selection
(p. 167), A. R. Wallace has recorded cases of simultaneous
variation among insects, apparently due to climate or
other strictly local causes. He found that the butterflies
of the family Papilionidae, and some others, became
similarly modified in different islands and groups of
islands.  Thus, the species inhabiting Sumatra, Java and
Borneo are almost always much smaller than the closely
allied species of Celebes and the Moluccas; the species or
varieties of the small island of Amboyna are larger than
the same species or closely allied forms inhabiting the
surrounding islands; the species found in Celebes possess
a peculiar form of wing, quite distinct from that of the
same or closely allied species of adjacent islands; and,
lastly, numerous species which have tailed wings in India and
the western islands of the Archipelago, gradually lose the
tail as we proceed eastward to New Guinea and the Pacific.

Many of these curious modifications may, it is true, be due
to other causes than climate only, but they serve to show how
powerfully and mysteriously local conditions affect the form
and structure of both plants and animals; and they render it
probable that changes of constitution are also continually
produced, although we have, in the majority of cases, no
means of detecting them.  It is also impossible to determine
how far the effects described are produced by spontaneous
favourable variations or by the direct action of local
conditions; but it is probable that in every case both causes
are concerned, although in constantly varying proportions.

Selection and Survival of the Fittest as Agents in
Naturalization. ---We may now take it as an established
fact that varieties of animals and plants occur, both in
domesticity and in a state of nature, which are better or
worse adapted to special climates. There is no positive
evidence that the influence of new climatal conditions
on the parents has any tendency to produce variations in
the offspring better adapted to such conditions.  Neither
does it appear that this class of variations are very
frequent.  It is, however, certain that whenever any animal
or plant is largely propagated constitutional variations will
arise, and some of these will be better adapted than others
to the climatal and other conditions of the locality.  In a
state of nature, every recurring severe winter or otherwise
unfavourable season weeds out those individuals of tender
constitution or imperfect structure which may have got on
very well during favourable years, and it is thus that the
adaptation of the species to the climate in which it has to
exist is kept up.  Under domestication the same thing occurs
by what C. Darwin has termed ``unconscious selection.''
Each cultivator seeks out the kinds of plants best suited
to his soil and climate and rejects those which are tender
or otherwise unsuitable.  The farmer breeds from such of
his stock as he finds to thrive best with him, and gets
rid of those which suffer from cold, damp or disease.  A
more or less close adaptation to local conditions is thus
brought about, and breeds or races are produced which are
sometimes liable to deterioration on removal even to a short
distance in the same country, as in numerous cases quoted
by C. Darwin (Animals and Plants under Domestication).

The Method of Acclimatization.--Taking into consideration
the foregoing facts and illustrations, it may be considered
as proved---1st, That habit has little (though it appears
to have some) definite effect in adapting the constitution of
animals to a new climate; but that it has a decided, though
still slight, influence in plants when, by the process of
propagation by buds, shoots or grafts, the individual can be
kept under its influence for long periods; 2nd, That great
and sudden changes of climate often check reproduction even
when the health of the individuals does not appear to suffer.
In order, therefore, to have the best chance of acclimatizing
any animal or plant in a climate very dissimilar from that of
its native country, and in which it has been proved that the
species in question cannot live and maintain itself without
acclimatization, we must adopt some such plan as the following:--

1. We must transport as large a number as possible of
adult healthy individuals to some intermediate station, and
increase them as much as possible for some years.  Favourable
variations of constitution will soon show themselves, and
these should be carefully selected to breed from, the
tender and unhealthy individuals being rigidly eliminated.

2. As soon as the stock has been kept a sufficient time to
pass through all the ordinary extremes of climate, a number
of the hardiest may be removed to the more remote station,
and the same process gone through, giving protection if
necessary while the stock is being increased, but as soon
as a large number of healthy individuals are produced,
subjecting them to ail the vicissitudes of the Climate.
It can hardly be doubted that in most cases this plan would
succeed.  It has been recommended by C. Darwin, and at
one of the early meetings of the Societe Zoologique d'
Acclimatation, at Paris, Isodore Geoffroy St Hillaire insisted
that it was the only method by which acclimatization was
possible.  But in looking through the long series of volumes
of Reports published by this society, there is no sign that
any systematic attempt at acclimatization has even once been
made.  A number of foreign animals have been introduced, and
more or less domesticated, and some useful exotics have been
cultivated for the purpose of testing their applicability to
French agriculture or horticulture; but neither in the case of
animals nor of plants has there been any systematic effort to
modify the constitution of the species, by breeding largely
and selecting the favourable variations that appeared.

Take the case of the Eucalyptus globulus as an example.
This is a Tasmanian gum-tree of very rapid growth and
great beauty, which will thrive in the extreme south of
France.  In the Bulletin of the society a large number
of attempts to introduce this tree into general cultivation
in other parts of France are recorded in detail, with the
failure of almost all of them.  But no precautions such as
those above indicated appear to have been taken in any of
these experiments; and we have no intimation that either the
society or any of its members are making systematic efforts
to acclimatize the tree.  The first step would be, to obtain
seed from healthy trees growing in the coldest climate and at
the greatest altitude in its native country, sowing these very
largely, and in a variety of soils and situations, in a part
of France where the climate is somewhat but not much more
extreme.  It is almost a certainty that a number of trees
would be found to be quite hardy.  As soon as these produced
seed, it should be sown in the same district and farther north
in a climate a little more severe. After an exceptionally cold
season, seed should be collected from the trees that suffered
least, and should be sown in various districts all over
France.  By such a process there can be hardly any doubt
that the tree would be thoroughly acclimatized in any part of
France, and in many other countries of central Europe; and
more good would be effected by one well-directed effort of
this kind than by hundreds of experiments with individual
animals and plants, which only serve to show us which are
the species that do not require to be acclimatized.

Acclimatization of Man.---On this subject we have,
unfortunately, very little direct or accurate information.
The general laws of heredity and variation have been proved
to apply to man as well as to animals and plants; and numerous
facts in the distribution of races show that man must, in
remote ages at least, have been capable of constitutional
adaptation to climate. If the human race constitutes a single
species, then the mere fact that man now inhabits every
region, and is in each case constitutionally adapted to the
climate, proves that acclimatization has occurred.  But we have
the same phenomenon in single varieties of man, such as the
American, which inhabits alike the frozen wastes of Hudson's
Bay and Tierra del Fuego, and the hottest regions of the
tropics,---the low equatorial valleys and the lofty plateaux
of the Andes.  No doubt a sudden transference to an extreme
climate is often prejudicial to man, as it is to most animals
and plants; but there is every reason to believe that, if
the migration occurs step by step, man can be acclimatized to
almost any part of the earth's surface in comparatively few
generations.  Some eminent writers have denied this.  Sir Ranald
Martin, from a consideration of the effects of the climate
of India on Europeans and their offspring, believed that there
is no such thing as acclimatization.  Dr Hunt, in a report
to the British Association in 1861, argued that ``time is no
agent,'' and--``if there is no sign of acclimatization in one
generation, there is no such process.'' But he entirely ignored
the effect of favourable variations, as well as the direct
influence of climate acting on the organization from infancy.

Professor Theodor Waitz, in his Introduction to Anthropology,
adduced many examples of the comparatively rapid constitutional
adaptation of man to new climatic conditions.  Negroes,
for example,who have been for three or four generations
acclimatized in North America, on returning to Africa become
subject to the same local diseases as other unacclimatized
individuals. He well remarked that the debility and
sickening of Europeans in many tropical countries are wrongly
ascribed to the climate, but are rather the consequences of
indolence, sensual gratification and an irregular mode of
life.  Thus the English, who cannot give up animal food and
spirituous liquors, are less able to sustain the heat of
the tropics than the more sober Spaniards and Portuguese.
The excessive mortality of European troops in India, and
the delicacy of the children of European parents, do not
affect the real question of acclimatization under proper
conditions.  They only show that acclimatization is in
most cases necessary, not that it cannot take place.  The
best examples of partial or complete acclimatization are
to be found where European races have permanently settled
in the tropics, and have maintained themselves for several
generations.  There are, however, two sources of inaccuracy
to be guarded against, and these are made the most of by
the writers above referred to, and are supposed altogether
to invalidate results which are otherwise opposed to their
views.  In the first place, we have the possibility of a
mixture of native blood having occurred; in the second,
there have almost always been a succession of immigrants
from the parent country, who continually intermingle with
the families of the early settlers.  It is maintained that
one or other of these mixtures is absolutely necessary to
enable Europeans to continue long to flourish in the tropics.

There are, however, certain cases in which the sources
of error above mentioned are reduced to a minimum,
and cannot seriously affect the results; such as those
of the Jews, the Dutch at the Cape of Good Hope and
in the Moluccas, and the Spaniards in South America.

The Jews are a good example of acclimatization, because they
have been established for many centuries in climates very
different from that of their native land; they keep themselves
almost wholly free from intermixture with the people around
them; and they are often so populous in a country that the
intermixture with Jewish immigrants from other lands cannot
seriously affect the local purity of the race.  They have, for
instance, attained a population of millions in such severe
climates as Poland and Russia; in the towns of Algeria they
have succeeded so conspicuously as to bring about an outburst
of anti-semitism; and in Cochin-China and Aden they succeed
in rearing children and forming permanent communities.

In some of the hottest parts of South America Europeans are
perfectly acclimatized, and where the race is kept pure it
seems to be even improved.  Some very valuable notes on this
subject were furnished to the present writer by the well-known
botanist, Richard Spruce, who resided many years in South
America, but who was prevented by ill health from publishing
his researches (see A. R. Wallace, Notes of a Botannist,
1908). As a careful, judicious and accurate observer,
both of man and nature, he had few superiors.  He says:

The white inhabitants of Guayaquil (lat. 2 deg.  13' S.) are kept
pure by careful selection.  The slightest tincture of red
or black blood bars entry into any of the old families who
are descendants of Spaniards ftom the Provincias Vascongadas
or those bordering the Bay of Biscay, where the morals are
perhaps the purest (as regards the intercourse of the sexes)
of any in Europe, and where for a girl, even of the poorest
class, to have a child before marriage is the rarest thing
possible.  The consequence of this careful breeding is,
that the women of Guavaquil are considered (and justly)
the finest along the whole Pacific coast.  They are often
tall, sometimes very handsome, decidedly healthy, although
pale, and assuredly prolific enough.  Their sons are big,
stout men, but when they lead inactive lives are apt to
become fat and sluggish.  Those of them, however, who have
farms in the savannahs and are accustomed to take long
rides in all weathers, and those whose trade obliges them
to take frequent journeys in the mountainous interior, or
even to Europe and North America, are often as active and as
little burdened with superfluous flesh as a Scotch farmer.

The oldest Christian town in Peru is Piura (lat. 5 deg.  S.),
which was founded by Pizarro himself.  The climate is very
hot, especially in the three or four months following
the southern solstice.  In March 1843 the temperature
only once fell as low as 83 deg.  during the whole month, the
usual lowest night temperature being 85 deg. .  Yet people of
all colours find it very healthy, and the whites are very
prolific.  I resided in the town itself nine months, and
in the neighbourhood seven months more.  The population (in
1863-1864) was about 10,000, of which not only a considerable
proportion was white, but was mostly descended from the
first emigrants after the conquest.  Purity of descent was
not, however, quite so strictly maintained as at Guayaquil.
The military adventurers, who have often risen to high or
even supreme rank in Peru, have not seldom been of mixed
race, and fear or favour has often availed to procure them
an alliance with the oldest and purest-blooded families.

These instances, so well stated by Spruce, seem to demonstrate
the complete acclimatization of Spaniards in some of the hottest
parts of South America.  Although we have here nothiog to do
with mixed races, yet the want of fertility in these has been
often taken to be a fact inherent in the mongrel race, and has
been also sometimes held to prove that neither the European
nor his half-bred offspring can maintain themselves in the
tropics.  The following observation is therefore of interest:--

At Guayaquil for a lady of good family---married or unmarried--to
be of loose morals is so uncommon, that when it does happen
it is felt as a calamity by the whole community.  But here,
and perhaps in most other towns in South America, a poor girl
of mixed race-especially if good-looking--rarely thinks of
marrying one of her own class until she has--as the Brazilians
say--``approveitada de sua mocidade'' (made the most of
her youth) in receiving presents from gentlemen. If she
thus bring a good dowry to her husband, he does not care to
inquire, or is not sensitive, about the mode in which it was
acquired.  The consequence of this indiscriminate sexual
intercourse, especially if much prolonged, is to diminish,
in some cases to paralyse, the fertility of the female.  And
as among people of mixed race it is almost universal, the
population of these must fall off both in numbers and quality.

The following example of divergent acclimatization of the
same race to hot and cold zones is very interesting, and
will conclude our extracts from Spruce's valuable notes:--

One of the most singular cases connected with this subject
that have fallen under my own observation, is the difficulty,
or apparent impossibility, of acclimatizing the Red Indian
in a certain zone of the Andes.  Any person who has compared
the physical characters of the native races of South America
must be convinced that these have all originated in a common
stirps.  Many local differences exist, but none capable of
invalidating this conclusion.  The warmth yet shade-loving
Indian of the Amazon; the Indian of the hot, dry and treeless
coasts of Peru and Guayaquil, who exposes his bare head to
the sun with as much zest as an African negro; the Indian
of the Andes, for whom no cold seems too great, who goes
constantly barelegged and often bare-headed, through whose
rude straw hut the piercing wind of the paramos sweeps
and chills the white man to the very bones;--all these,
in the colour and texture cf the skin, the hair and other
important features, are plainly of one and the same race.

Now there is a zone of the equatorial Andes, ranging between
about 4000 and 6000 feet altitude, where the very best
flavoured coffee is grown, where cane is less luxuriant but
more saccharine than in the plains, and which is therefore
very desirable to cultivate, but where the red man sickens and
dies.  Indians taken down from the sierra get ague and
dysentery.  Those of the plains find the temperature chilly,
and are stricken down with influenza and pains in the
limbs.  I have seen the difficulty experienced in getting
farms cultivated in this zone, on both sides of the
Cordillera.  The permanent residents are generally limited
to the major-domo and his family; and in the dry season
labourers are hired, of any colour that can be obtained--some
from the low country, others from the highlands--for three,
four, or five months, who gather in and grind the cane, and
plant for the harvest of the following year; but the staff of
resident Indian labourers, such as exists in the farms of the
sierra, cannot be kept up in the Fungas, as these half-warm
valleys are called.  White men, who take proper precautions,
and are not chronically soaked with cane-spirit, stand the
climate perfectly, but the creole whites are still too much
caballeros to devote themselves to agricultural work.

In what is now the republic of Ecuador, the only peopled
portions are the central valley, between the two ridges of
the Andes--height 7000 to 12,000 feet--and the hot plain at
their western base; nor do the wooded slopes appear to have
been inhabited, except by scattered savage hordes, even in
the time of the Incas.  The Indians of the highlands are
the descendants of others who have inhabited that region
exclusively for untold ages; and a similar affirmation may
be made of the Indians of the plain.  Now, there is little
doubt that the progenitors of both these sections came from
a temperate region (in North America); so that here we have
one moiety acclimatized to endure extreme heat, and the
other extreme cold; and at this day exposure of either to the
opposite extreme (or even, as we have seen, to the climate
of an intermediate zone) is always pernicious and often
fatal.  But if this great difference has been brought about
in the red man, might not the same have happened to the white
man? Plainly it might, time being given; for one cannot doubt
that the inherent adaptability is the same in both, or (if
not) that the white man possesses it in a higher degree.

The observations of Spruce are of themselves almost conclusive
as to the possibility of Europeans becoming acclimatized in
the tropics; and if it is objected that this evidence applies
only to the dark-haired southern races, we are fortunately
able to point to facts, almost equally well authenticated
and conclusive, in the case of one of the typical Germanic
races.  In South Africa the Dutch have been settled and
nearly isolated for over 200 years, and have kept themselves
almost or quite free from native intermixture.  They are
still preponderatingly fair in complexion, while physically
they are tall and strong. They marry young and have large
families.  The population, according to a census taken in 1798,
was under 22,000.  In 1865 it was near 182,000, the majority
being of ``Dutch, German or French origin, mostly descendants
of original settlers.'' In more recent times, the conditions
have been so greatly changed by immigration, that the later
statistics cease to have a definite meaning with regard to
acclimatization.  We have here a population which doubled
itself every twenty-two years; and the greater part of this
rapid increase must certainly be due to the old European
immigrants.  In the Moluccas, where the Dutch have had
settlements for 250 years, some of the inhabitants trace
their descent to early immigrants; and these, as well as
most of the people of Dutch descent in the east, are quite
as fair as their European ancestors, enjoy excellent health,
and are very prolific.  But the Dutch accommodate themselves
admirably to a tropical climate, doing much of their work
early in the morning, dressing very lightly, and living a
quiet, temperate and cheerful life.  They also pay great
attention to drainage and general cleanliness.  In addition
to these examples, it is obvious that the rapid increase
of English-speaking populations in the United States and in
Australia is far greater than can be explained by immigration,
and shows two conspicuous examples of acclimatization.

On the whole, we seem justified in concluding that, under
favourable conditions, and with a proper adaptation of means
to the end in view, man may become acclimatized with at
least as much certainty and rapidity (counting by generations
rather than by years) as any of the lower animals.  The
greatest difficulty in his way is not temperature, but the
presence of parasitic diseases to resist which his body has
not been prepared, and modern knowledge is rapidly defining
these dangers and the modes of avoiding them. (A. R. W.)

APPENDIX The task of collecting information as to animals
which have become permanently naturalized away from their native
haunts is anything but easy, as few regular records have been
kept by acclimatizers.  Moreover, recorders of local fauna
have been almost unanimous in ignoring the introduced forms,
except when they have had occasion to comment on the effects,
real or supposed, of these immigrants on aboriginal faunas.

Mammals.---It is unnecessary here to dwell upon the world-wide
distribution of the two rats Mus rattus and M. decumanus,
and of the house-mouse M. musculus; their introduction has
always been involuntary.  Similarly nearly all our domestic
mammals except the sheep have become feral somewhere or other,
whether by intentional liberation or by escape; but the smaller
ones more than the larger, such as pigs, goats, dogs and
cats.  This has been especially the case in Hawaii and New
Zealand; in America, Australia and Hawaii, horses and cattle
are also feral.  Feral pigs are numerous in New Zealand.

The domestic Indian buffalo (Bos bubalus) exists as
a wild animal in North Australia; it is very liable to
revert to a wild state, being little altered from its
still-existing wild ancestor. A more curious case is that
of the one-humped camel (Camelus dromedarius), a beast
only known in domestication, and that in arid countties;
yet a number of these have become feral in the Spanish
marshes, where they wade about like quadrupedal flamingoes.

The red deer (Cervus elaphus) is now widely distributed as
a wild animal over New Zealand, where also the fallow-deer
(C. dama) and the Indian sambar (C. aristotelis or
unicolor) have been introduced locally.  The sambar, or one
or other of its subspecies, has also been naturalized in
Mauritius, and in the Marianne Islands in the open Pacific.

The wide introduction of the rabbit, as a wild animal, is well
known.  Amounting to a serious pest in Australasian colonies, it
is also established in the Falklands and Kerguelen; its presence
in much of Europe is attributed to early acclimatization, as it
seems anciently to have been confined to the Iberian peninsula.

The hare has been established in New Zealand and Barbadoes.
Few other rodents have been designedly naturalized, but
the North American grey squirrel (Sciurus einereus)
appears to be established as a wild animal in Woburn Park,
Bedfordshire, England, and may probably spread thence.

To check the increase of the rabbit, stoats, weasels and
polecats (the last in the form of the domesticated ferret)
were introduced into New Zealand on a very large scale in the
last quarter of the 19th century.  They have spread widely,
and have not confined their depredations to the rabbits, so
that the indigenous flightless birds have suffered largely.

Another carnivore of very similar habits, the Indian mongoose
(Herpestus griseus or H. mungo), has been naturalized
in Jamaica, whence it has been carried to other West Indian
Islands, and in the Hawaiian group.  It has also been tried,
but unsuccessfully, in Australia.  The first introduction
into Jamaica took place in 1872, and ten years later the
animal was credited with saving many thousands of pounds
annually by its destruction of rats. But before an equal
space of time had further elapsed, it had itself become
a pest; the most recent information, however, is to the
effect that its numbers are now on the decline, and that
the disturbed faunal equilibrium is being readjusted.

The civets, being celebrated for their odoriferous secretion,
are likely animals to have been naturalized.  W. T. Blanford
(Fauna of British India, ``Mammals'') thinks that the presence
of the Indian form, Viverricula malaccensis, in Socotra, the
Comoro Islands and Madagascar is due to the assistance of man.

The common fox of Europe has been introduced into Australia,
where it is destructive to the native fauna and to lambs.

Among primates, a Ceylonese monkey (Macacus pileatus)
has been naturalized in Mauritius for centuries,
the circumstances of introduction being unknown.

The Common Australian ``opossum'' or phalanger (Trichosurus
vulpecula) has been naturalized in New Zealand, although very
destructive to fruit trees; the value of its fur being probably the
motive.  It is said that the pelage of the New Zealand specimens
is superior, as might be expected from the colder climate.

Birds.---The introduction of mammals has been largely
influenced by economic conditions, when, indeed, it was
not absolutely accidental and unavoidable; but in the case
of birds it has been more gratuitous, so to speak, in many
cases, and hence is looked upon with especial dislike by
naturalists.  The domestic birds have comparatively seldom
become feral, doubtless, as C. Darvdn points out, from the
reduction of their powers of flight in many cases.  The
guinea-fowl, however, has long been in this condition in Jamaica
and St Helena, and the fowl in Hawaii and other Polynesian
islands.  The pheasant has been naturalized in the United
States, New Zealand, Hawaii and St Helena.  Its naturalization
in western Europe is very ancient, but the race supposed to
have been introduced by the Romans (Phasianus colchicus)
has been much modified within the last century or two by the
introduction of the ring-necked Chinese form (P. torquatus),
which produces fertile hybrids with the old breed.  Thus
those acclimatized were usually, no doubt, of mixed blood,
and further introductions of pure Chinese stock have tended to
make the latter the dominant form, at any rate in the United
States (where it is erroneously called Mongolian1) and in New
Zealand.  In Hawaii and St Helena the ring-neck appears to
have been the only pheasant introduced pure, but in the former
the Japanese race (P. versicolor) is also naturalized.

1 The true Mongolian pheasant (P. mongolicus), a very
different bird, has recently been introduced into England.

The golden pheasant (Chrysolophus pietus) is locally
established in the United States, as appear to be other pheasants
of less common species.  The Reeves' pheasant (P. reevesi)
is at large on some English estates.  Of the partridges,
the continental red-leg (Caccabis rnfo) is established in
England, and its ally, the Asiatic chukore (C. chukar), in St
Helena, as is the Californian quail (Lophortyx californica )
in New Zealand and Hawaii. The latter, however, though thriving
as an aviary bird, has failed at large in England, as did the
bob-white (Ortyx virginianus) both there and in New Zealand.

The desirable character of the grouse as game-birds has led to
many attempts at their acclimatization, but usually these have been
unsuccessful; the red grouse (Lagopus scoticus), however, the
only endemic British bird, is naturalized in some parts of Europe.

Of waterfowl, the Canada goose (Brantd eanadensis)
is naturalized to a small extent in Britain, and also,
to a less degree, the Egyptian goose (Chenalopex
aegyptiacus); the latter bird also occurs wild in New
Zealand.  The modern presence of the black swan of Australia
(Chenopis atrata) in New Zealand appears to be due to
a natural irruption of the species about half a century
ago as much as to acclimatization by man, if not more so.

Birds of prey are, unjustly enough, regarded with so little
favour that few attempts have been made to naturalize
them; the continental little owl (Athene noctua),
however, has for some time been well established in
England, where it has hardly, if ever, appeared naturally.

Pigeons have been very little naturalized; the tame bird has
become feral locally in various countries, and the Chinese
turtledove (Turtur chinensis) is established in Hawaii, as is
the small East Indian zebra dove (Geopelia striata) in the
Seychelles, and the allied Australian (G. tranquilla) in St
Helena.  There has also been very little naturalization of
parrots, but the rosella parrakeet of Australia (Platycercus
eximius) is being propagated by escaped captives in the
north island of New Zealand, and its ally the mealy rosella
(P. pallidiceps) is locally wild in Hawaii, the stock in
this case having descended from a single pair intentionally
liberated.  Attempts to naturalize that well-known Australian
grass-parrakeet the budgerigar (Melopsittacus undulatus) in
England have so far proved abortive, and none of the species
experimented with in Norfolk and Bedfordshire effected a
settlement.  The greyheaded love-bird (Agapornis cana)
of Madagascar is established in the Seychelles.  Some of
the passerine birds have been the most widely distributed,
especially the house-sparrow (Passer domesticus), which is
now an integral, and very troublesome, part of the fauna in
the Australasian States and in North America.  It is, in fact,
as notorious an example of over-successful acclimatization as
the rabbit, but in Hutton and Drummond's recent work on the
New Zealand animals (London, 1905) it is not regarded in this
light, considering that some very common exotic birds were needed
to keep down the insects, which it certainly did.  Even in the
United States also, it has been found a useful destroyer of
weed-seeds.  The house-sparrow is also feral in Argentina,
some of the West Indian islands, Hawaii and the Andamans.

The allied tree-sparrow (P. montanus) has been
locally naturalized in the United States; it is a more
desirable bird, being less prolific and pugnacious,
but it is expelled from towns by the house-sparrow.

The so-called Java sparrow (Munia orysivora), although
a destructive bird to rice, has been widely distributed
by accident or design, and is now found in several East
Indian islands besides Java, in south China, St Helena,
India, Zanzibar and the east African coast.  An allied but
much smaller weaver-finch, a form of the spice-bird (Munia
nisoria punctata), is introduced and well distributed over
the Hawaiian islands.  The little rooibek of South Africa
(Estrilda astrild) has been so long and well established
in St Helena that it is known in the bird trade as the St
Helena waxbill, and the brilliant scarlet weaver of Madagascar
(Fondia madagascariensis) inhabits as an imported bird
Mauritius, the Seychelles and even the remote Chagos Islands.

Returning to the true finches, the only one which can compete
with the house-sparrow in the extent of its distribution by
man is the goldfinch (Carduelis carduelis), now established
all over New Zealand, as well as in Australia, the United
States and Jamaica.  It bears a good character, and is one
of the marked successes of naturalization.  The redpoll
(Acanthis linaria), chaffinch (Fringilla coelebs)
and greenfinch (Chloris chloris) are established in New
Zealand, the last named being a pest there, as is also
the cirl-bunting (Emberiza cirlus)---the yellow-hammer
(E. citrinella) being perhaps confused with this also.

Among starlings, the Indian mynah (generally the house mynah,
Acridotheros tristis, but some other species seem to have been
confused with this) has been naturalized in the Andamans, Seychelles,
Reunion, Australia, Hawaii and parts of New Zealand. Its alleged
destructiveness to the Hawaiian avifauna seems open to doubt.

The European starling (Sturnus vulgaris) is naturalized in New
Zealand, Australia and to some extent in the United States.
Thrushes have not been widely introduced, but the song-thrush
and blackbird (Turdus musicus and Merula merula) are
common in New Zealand; attempts were made, but unsuccessfully,
to establish the latter in the United States.  The so-called
hedge-sparrow (Accentor modularis), really a member of
this group, is one of the successful introductions into New
Zealand.  The robin (Erithacus rubecula) failed there.

Rooks (Corvus frugilegus) and the Australian ``magpie''
or piping crow (Gymnorhina) are to be found in New
Zealand, but only locally, especially the former.

Reptiles and Amphibians.---Very little naturalization
has been effected, or indeed apparently attempted, in
regard to these groups, but the occurrence of the edible
frog of the continent of Europe (Rana esculenta) as an
introduced animal in certain British localities is well
known.  An Australian tree-frog (Hyla peronii) is
naturalized in many parts of the north island of New Zealand.

Fish.--The instances of naturalization in this class are
few, but important.  The common carp (Cyprinus carpio),
originally a Chinese fish, has for centuries been acclimatized
in Europe, where indeed it is in places a true domestic
creature, with definite variations.  It is, however, quite
feral also, and has been introduced into North America.

The Prussian carp (Carassius vulgaris) is established in
New Zealand, and the nearly-allied goldfish, a domestic
form (C. auratus) of Chinese origin, has been widely
distributed as a pet, and is feral in some places.

The gourami (Osphromenus olfax) of the East Indies has been
established in Mauritius and Cayenne, being a valuable foodfish.

The most important case of naturalization of fish is, however,
the establishment of some Salmonidae in Tasmania and New
Zealand.  These are the common trout and sea-trout (Salmo
fario and S. trutta); they attain a great size.  So far,
attempts to establish the true salmon in alien localities
have been unsuccessful, but the American rainbow trout (S.
irideus) has thriven in New Zealand, and the brook char
of the same continent (S. fontinalis) inhabits at least
one stream there to the exclusion of the common trout.

Invertebrates.---Many insects and other invertebrates, mostly
noxious, have been accidentally naturalized, and some have
been deliberately introduced, like the honey-bee, now feral in
Australasia and North America, and the humble-bee, imported
into New Zealand to effect the fertilization of red clover.

The spread of the European house-fly has been deliberately
encouraged in New Zealand, as wherever it penetrates the
native flesh-fly, a more objectionable pest, disappears.

The wide distribution of three common cockroaches (Feriplaneta
americana, Blatta orientalis and Ectobia germanica)
is well known, but these are chiefly house-insects.

The common small white butterfly of Europe (Pontia or Pieris
rapae) is now established in North America; and the march of the
jigger, or foot-infesting flea (Sarcopsylla penetrans) of tropical
America, across Africa, has taken place in quite recent years.

The Romans are credited with having purposely introduced the
edible snail (Helix pomatia) into England, and the common
garden snail and slugs (Helix aspersa, Limax agrestis and
Arion hortensis) have been unwittingly established in New
Zealand.  In that country, also, the earthworms of Europe
are noticed to replace native forms as the ground is broken.

General Remarks.--A great deal has been said about the
upsetting of the balance of nature by naturalization,
and as to the ill-doing of exotic forms.  But certain
considerations should be borne in mind in this connexion.
In the first place, naturalization experiments fail at least
as often as they succeed, and often quite inexplicably.
Thus, the linnet and partridge have failed to establish
themselves in New Zealand.  This may ultimately throw
some light on the disappearance of native forms; for
these have at times declined without any assignable cause.

Secondly, native forms often disappear with the clearing
off of the original forest or other vegetation, in which
case their recession is to a certain extent unavoidable,
and the fauna which has established itself in the
presence of cultivation is needed to replace them.

Thirdly, the ill effect of introduced forms on existing
ones may often be due rather to the spread of disease and
parasites than to actual attack; thus, in Hawaii the native
birds have been found suffering from a disease which attacks
poultry.  And the recession of the New Zealand earthworms
and flies before exotic forms probably falls under this
category.  As man cannot easily avoid introducing parasites,
and must keep domestic animals and till the land, a certain
disturbance in aboriginal faunas is absolutely unavoidable.
Under certain circumstances, however, the native animals may
recover, for in some cases they even profit by man's advent,
and at times themselves become pests, like the Kea parrot
(Nestor notabilis), which attacks sheep in New Zealand, and
the bobolink or rice-bird (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) in North
America.  Finally, it should never be forgotten that the worst
enemies of declining forms have been collectors who have not
given these species the chance of recovering themselves. (F. FN.)

ACCOLADE (from Ital. accolata, derived from Lat. collum,
the neck), a ceremony anciently used in conferring knighthood;
but whether it was an actual embrace (according to the use
of the modern French word accolade), or a slight blow on
the neck or cheek, is not agreed.  Both these customs appear
to be of great antiquity.  Gregory of Tours writes that the
early kings of France, in conferring the gilt shoulder-belt,
kissed the knights on the left cheek; and William the
Conqueror is said to have made use of the blow in conferring
the honour of knighthood on his son Henry.  At first it was
given with the naked fist, a veritable box on the ear, but
for this was substituted a gentle stroke with the flat of
the sword on the side of the neck, or on either shoulder as
well.  In Great Britain the sovereign, in conferring
knighthood, still employs this latter form of accolade.

``Accolade'' is also a technical term in music-printing for
a sort of brace joining separate staves; and in architecture
it denotes a form of decoration on doors and windows.

ACCOLTI, BENEDETTO (1415-1466), Italian jurist and
historian, was born at Arezzo, in Tuscany, of a noble family,
several members of which were distinguished like himself for
their attainments in law.  He was for some time professor of
jurisprudence in the university of Florence, and on the death
of the celebrated Poggio, in 1459, became chancellor of the
Florentine republic. He died at Florence.  In conjunction with
his brother Leonardo, he wrote in Latin a history of the first
crusade, entitled De Fello a Christianis contra Barbaros
gesto pro Ghristi Sepulehro et Iudaea recuperandis libri
tres (Venice, 1432, translated into Italian, 1543, and into
French, 1620), which, though itself of little interest, is
said to have furnished Tasso with the historic basis for
his Jerusalem Delivered. Another work of Accolti's-De
Praestantia Virorum sui Aevi--was published at Parma in
1689.  His brother Francesco (1418-1483) was also a distinguished
jurist, and was the author of Conrilia seu responsa (Pisa,
1481); Commentaria super lib. ii. decretalium (Bologna, 1481);
Gommentaria (Pavia, 1493); de Balneis Puleolanis (1475).

ACCOLTI, BERNARDO (1465--1536), Italian poet, born at
Arezzo, was the son of Benedetto Accolti.  Known in his
own day as l'Unico Aretino, he acquired great fame as a
reciter of impromptu verse.  He was listened to by large
crowds, composed of the most learned men and the most
distinguished prelates of the age.  Among others, Cardinal
Bombo has left on record a testimony to his extraordinary
talent.  His high reputation with his contemporaries seems
scarcely justified by the poems he published, though they
give evidence of brilliant fancy.  It is probable that he
succeeded better in his extemporary productions than in
those which were the fruit of deliberation.  His works,
under the title Virginia, Comedia, Capitoli e Strambotti
di Messer Bernardo Accolti Aretino, were published at
Florence in 1513, and have been several times reprinted.

ACCOLTI, PIETRO (1455--1532), brother of the preceding,
known as the cardinal of Ancona, was born in Florence on the
15th of March 1455, and died at Rome on the 12th of December
1532 (Ciaconi, Vitae Pontificum, 1677, iii. 295).  He was
made bishop of Ancona, in 1505, and cardinal on the 17th of
March 1511, by Julius II. He was abbreviator under Leo X.,
and in that capacity drew up in 1520 the bull against Luther
(L. Cardella, Memorie Storiche de' Cardinali, 1793, iii.
450).  He held successively the suburban sees of Albano and
Sabina, also the sees of Cadiz, Maillezais, Arras and Cremona,
and was made archbishop of Ravenna, 1524, by Clement VII.

F. Cristofori (Storia dei Cardinali, 1888) and others have
confused him with his nephew BENEDETTO (1497-1549), son
of Michaele; who followed him in several of his preferments,
was made cardinal, 1527, by Clement VII., and is known as
a writer in behalf of papal claims and as a Latin poet.

ACCOMMODATION (Lat. accommodare, to make fit, from ad, to,
cum, with, and modus, measure), the process of fitting, adapting,
adjusting or supplying with what is needed (e.g. housing).

In theology the term ``accommodation'' is used rather loosely
to describe the employment of a word, phrase, sentence or
idea, in a context other than that in which it originally
occurred; the actual wording of the quotation may be modified
to a greater or lesser extent.  Such accommodation, though
sometimes purely literary or stylistic, generally has the
definite purpose of instruction, and is frequently used both
in the New Testament and in pulpit utterances in all periods
as a means of producing a reasonably accurate impression
of a complicated idea in the minds of those who are for
various reasons unlikely to comprehend it otherwise.  There
are roughly three main kinds. (1) A later Biblical passage
quotes from an earlier, partly as a literary device, but
also with a view to demonstration. Sometimes it is plain
that the writer deliberately ``accommodates'' a quotation
(cf. John xviii. 8, 9 with xvii. 12). But New Testament
quotations of Old Testament predictions are often for us
accommodations---striking or forced as the case may be --while
the New Testament writer, ``following the exegetical methods
current among the Jews of his time, Matthew ii. 15, 18, xxvi.
31, xxvii. 9'' (S. R. Driver in Zechariah in Century
Bible, pp. 259, 271), puts them forward as arguments.  To
say that he is merely ``describing a New Testament fact in
Old Testament phraseology'' may be true of the result rather
than of his design. (2) Much beeides in the Bible--parable,
metaphor, &c.--has been called an ``accommodation,'' or
divine condescension to human weakness. (3) German 18th-century
rationalism (see APOLOGETICS) held that the Biblical writers
made great use of conscious accommodation--intending moral
commonplaces when they seemed to be enunciating Christian
dogmas. Another expression for this, used, e.g., by J. S.
Semler, is ``economy,'' which also occurs in the kindred
sense of ``reserve'' (or of Disciplina Arcani--a modern term
for the supposed early Catholic habit of reserving esoteric
truths).  Isaac Williams on Reserve in Religious Teaching,
No. 80 of Tracts for the Times, made a great sensation; see
R. W. Church's comments in The Oxford Movement. Strictly,
accommodation (2) or (3) modifies, in form or in substance,
the content of religious belief; reserve, from prudence or
cunning, withholds part. ``Economy'' is used in both senses.

ACCOMMODATION BILL. An accommodation bill, as its name implies,
is a bill of exchange accepted and sometimes endorsed without
any receipt of value in order to afford temporary pecuniary
aid to the person accommodated. (See BILL OF EXCHANGE.)

ACCOMPANIMENT (i.e. that which ``accompanies''), a
musical term for that part of a vocal or instrumental
composition added to support and heighten the principal vocal
or instrumental part; either by means of other vocal parts,
single instruments or the orchestra.  The accompaniment
may be obbligato or ad libitum, according as it forms
an essential part of the composition or not.  The term
obbligato or obbligato accompaniment is also used
for an independent instrumental solo accompanying a vocal
piece.  Owing to the early custom of only writing the
accompaniment in outline, by means of a ``figured bass,''
to be filled in by the performer, and to the changes in the
number, quality and types of the instruments of the orchestra,
``additional'' accompaniments have been written for the
works of the older masters; such are Mozart's ``additional''
accompaniments to Handel's Messiah or those to many of the
elder Bach's works by Robert Franz.  In common parlance any
support given, e.g. by the piano, to a voice or instrument
is loosely called an accompaniment, which may be merely
``vamped'' by the introduction of a few chords, or may rise
to the dignity of an artistic composition.  In the history
of song the evolution of the art side of an accompaniment is
important, and in the higher forms the vocal and instrumental
parts practically constitute a duet, in which the instrumental
part may be at least as important as that of the voice.

ACCOMPLICE (from Fr. complice, conspirator, Lat. complex,
a sharer, associate, complicare, to fold together; the
ac- is possibly due to confusion with ``accomplish,'' to
complete, Lat. complere, to fill up), in law, one who is
associated with another or others in the commission of a
crime, whether as principal or accessory.  The term is
chiefly important where one of those charged with a crime
turns king's evidence in the expectation of obtaining a
pardon for himself.  Accordingly, as his evidence is tainted
with self-interest, it is a rule of practice to direct
a jury to acquit, where the evidence of an accomplice is
not corroborated by independent evidence both as to the
circumstances of the offence and the participation of the
accused in it.  An accomplice who has turned king's evidence
usually receives a pardon, but has no legal right to
exemption from punishment till he has actually received it.

ACCORAMBONI, VITTORIA (1557--1585), an Italian lady famous
for her great beauty and accomplishments and for her tragic
history.  She was born in Rome of a family belonging to the
minor noblesse of Gubbio, which migrated to Rome with a
view to bettering their fortunes.  After refusing several
offers of marriage for Vittoria, her father betrothed her to
Francesco Peretti (1573), a man of no position, but a nephew
of Cardinal Montalto, who was regarded as likely to become
pope.  Vittoria was admired and worshipped by all the
cleverest and most brilliant men in Rome, and being luxurious
and extravagant although poor, she and her husband were soon
plunged in debt. Among her most fervent admirers was P. G.
Orsini, duke of Bracciano, one of the most powerful men in
Rome, and her brother Marcello, wishing to see her the
duke's wife, had Peretti murdered (1581).  The duke himself
was suspected of complicity, inasmuch as he was believed
to have murdered his first wife, Isabella de' Medici.  Now
that Vittoria was free he made her an offer of marriage,
which she willingly accepted, and they were married shortly
after.  But her good fortune aroused much jealousy, and attempts
were made to annul the marriage; she was even imprisoned,
and only liberated through the interference of Cardinal Carlo
Borromeo.  On the death of Gregory XIII., Cardinal Montalto,
her first husband's uncle, was elected in his place as Sixtus
V. (1585); he vowed vengeance on the duke of Bracciano and
Vittoria, who, warned in time, fled first to Venice and
thence to Salo in Venetian territory.  Here the duke died
in November 1585, bequeathing all his personal property (the
duchy of Bracciano he left to his son by his first wife) to his
widow.  Vittoria, overwhelmed with grief, went to live in
retirement at Padua, where she was followed by Lodovico
Orsini, a relation of her late husband and a servant of the
Venetian republic, to arrange amicably for the division of the
property.  But a quarrel having arisen in this connexion Lodovico
hired a band of bravos and had Vittoria assassinated (22nd of
December 1585).  He himself and nearly all his accomplices
were afterwards put to death by order of the republic.

About Vittoria Accoramboni much has been written, and she
has been greatly maligned by some biographers.  Her story
formed the basis of Webster's drama, The Tragedy of Paolo
Giordano Ursini (1612), and of Ludwig Tieck's novel,
Vittoria Accoramboni (1840); it is told more accurately in
D. Gnoli's volume, Vittoria Accoramboni (Florence, 1870),
and an excellent sketch of her life is given in Countess E.
Martinengo-Cesaresco's Lombard Studies (London, 1902). (L. V.*)

ACCORD (from Fr. accorder, to agree), in law, an agreement
between two parties, one of whom has a right of action against the
other, to give and accept in substitution for such Iight any good
legal consideration.  Such an agreement when executed discharges
the cause of action and is called Accord and Satisfaction.

ACCORDION (Fr. aeeordeoni Ger. Handharmonica,
Ziehharmonica), a small portable reed wind instrument
with keyboard, the smallest representative of the
organ family, invented in 1829 by Damian, in Vienna.

The accordion consists of a bellows of many folds, to which
is attached a keyboard with from 5 to 50 keys.  The keys on
being depressed, while the bellows are being worked, open
valves admitting the wind to free reeds, consisting of narrow
tongues of metal riveted some to the upper, some to the
lower board of the bellows, having their free ends bent, some
inwards, some outwards.  Each key produces two notes, one
from the inwardly bent reed when the bellows are compressed,
the other from the outwardly bent reed by suction (as in
the American organ; see HARMONIUM) when the bellows are
expanded.  The pitch of the note is determined by the length
and thickness of the reeds, reduction of the length tending
to sharpen the note, while reduction of the thickness lowers
it.  The right hand plays the melody on the keyboard, while
the left works the bellows and manipulates the two or three
bass harmony keys, which sound the simple chords of the tonic
and dominant. The archetype of the accordion is the cheng
(q.v.), or Chinese organ, between which and the harmonium
it forms a connecting link structurally, although not invented
for some thirty years after the harmonium.  The timbre of the
accordion is coarse and devoid of beauty, but in the hands
of a skilful performer the best instruments are not entirely
without artistic merit. Improvements in the construction of
the accordion produced the concertina (q.v.), melodion and
melophone. las Accordion in kurzer Zeit richtig spielen zu
erlernen (Wien, 1834). See also FREE REED VIBRATOR. (K. S.)

ACCORSO (ACCURSIUS), MARIANOELO (c. 1490-1544),
Italian critic, was born at Aquila, in the kingdom of
Naples.  He was a great favourite with Charles V., at whose
court he resided for thirty-three years, and by whom he was
employed on various foreign missions.  To a perfect knowledge
of Greek and Latin he added an intimate acquaintance with
several modern languages.  In discovering and collating ancient
manuscripts, for which his travels abroad gave him special
opportunities, he displayed uncommon diligence.  His work
entitled Diatribae in Ausonium, Solinum et Ovidium (1524)
is a monument of erudition and critical skill.  He was the
first editor of the Letters of Gassiodorus, with his
Treatise on the Soul (1538); and his edition of Ammianus
Marcellinus (1533) contains five books more than any former
one.  The affected use of antiquated terms, introduced by
some of the Latin writers of that age, is humorously ridiculed
by him, in a dialogue in which an Oscan, a Volscian and a
Roman are introduced as interlocutors (1531).  Accorso was
accused of plagiarism in his notes on Ausonius, a charge
which he most solemnly and energetically repudiated.

ACCOUNT (through O. Fr. acont, Late Lat. comptum,
computare, to calculate), counting, reckoning, especially of
moneys paid and received, hence a statement made as to the
receipt and payment of moneys; also any statement as to acts or
conduct, or quite simply any narrative report of events, &c.
A further sense-development is that of esteem, consideration.

As a stock-exchange term ``account'' is used in several
senses. (1) The periodical settlements occurring, in London,
monthly for British government and a few other first-class
securities, and fortnightly for all others.  The settlement
extends over four days in mining shares and three days in other
securities.  The first day is the carry-over, ``contango,'' or
making-up, day, on which speculative commitments are carried
over, or continued: that is, the bulls, who have bought
stock for the rise, arrange the rate of interest that they
have to give on their stock to a moneylender, or bear, who
will pay for it or take it in for them; and the bears, who
have sold for the fall, arrange the rate that they receive
from the bulls or, if the stock is scarce and oversold, the
backwardation or rate that they have to pay to holders of the
stock who will lend it them to enable them to complete their
bargains.  On the second day, called ticket-day or name
day, a ticket giving the name and address of the ultimate
buyer and the firm which will pay for the stock is passed
through the various intermediaries to the ultimate seller,
so that the actual transfer of the stock can be made
directly.  In the mining market the passing of names takes two
days.  On the last day, account day, pay day or settling
day, cheques are paid to meet speculative differences, or
against the delivering of stock. (2) The period between two
settlements.  A nineteen-day account is one in which nineteen
days elapse between one pay-day and another. (3) The volume or
condition of commitments.  A speculator is said to have a large
account open when he has dealt heavily either for the rise or
fall.  A bull account exists in a stock or group of stocks
when it or they have been bought for the rise by a Iarge
number of operators; in the contrary case, when there have
been heavy sales for the fall, a bear account is developed.

ACCOUNTANT-GENERAL, formerly an officer in the English
Court of Chancery, who received all moneys lodged in court,
and by whom they were deposited in bank and disbursed.  The
office was abolished by the Chancery Funds Act 1872, and
the duties transferred to the paymaster-general (q.v.).

ACCOUNTANTS. The term ``accountant'' is one to which, of
late years, its original meaning has been more generally
attributed---that of an expert in the science of book-keeping.
It is sometimes adopted by book-keepers, but this is an
erroneous application of the term; it properly describes those
competent to design and control the systems of accounts required
for the record of the multifarious and rapid transactions
of trade and finance.  It assumes the possession of a wide
knowledge of the principles upon which accountancy is based,
which may be shortly described as constituting a science by
means of which all mercantile and financial transactions,
whether in money or in money's worth, including operations
completed and engagements undertaken to be fulfilled at once
or in a future, however remote, may be recorded; and this
science comprises a knowledge of the methods of preparing
statistics, whether relating to finance or to any transactions
or circumstances which can be stated by numeration, and of
ascertaining or estimating on correct bases the cost of any
operation whether in money, in commodities, in time, in life
or in any wasting property. Generally, accountancy may be
described as being the science by means of which all operations,
as far as they are capable of being shown in figures, are
accurately recorded and their results ascertained and stated.

History.

The origin of the profession of accountancy in Great Britain
is difficult to trace; auditors of accounts were naturally
of very early existence, being mentioned as officers of
importance in the statutes of Westminster in the reign of
Edward I. The art of accountancy on a scientific principle
must certainly have been understood in Italy before 1495,
when Friar Luca dal Borgo published at Venice his treatise
on book-keeping; but the first known English book on the
science was published in London by John Gouge or Gough in
1543.  It is described as A Profitable Treatyce called
the Instrument or Boke to learn to knowe the good order
of the kepyng of the famouse reconynge, called in Latin,
Dare and Habere, and, in Englyshe, Debitor and Creditor.
A short book of instruction was also published in 1588 by
John Mellis of Southwark, in which he says, ``I am but the
renuer and reviver of an auncient old copie printed here
in London the 14 of August 1543: collected, published,
made, and set forth by one Hugh Oldcastle, Scholemaster,
who, as appeareth by his treatise, then taught Arithmetike,
and this booke in Saint Ollaves parish in Marko Lane.'' John
Melfis refers to the fact that the principle of accounts
he explains (which is a simple system of double entry) is
``after the forme of Venice.'' The very interesting and able
book described as The Merchants Mirrour, or directions for
the perfect ordering and keeping af his accounts formed by
way of Debitor and Creditor, after the (so termed) Italian
manner, by Richard Dafforne, accountant, published in 1635,
contains many references to early books on the science of
accountancy.  In a chapter in this book, headed ``Opinion
of Book-keeping's Antiquity,'' the author states, on the
authority of another writer, that the form of book-keeping
referred to had then been in use in Italy about two hundred
years, ``but that the same, or one in many parts very like
this, was used in the time of Julius Caesar, and in Rome long
before.'' He gives quotations of Latin book-keeping terms in
use in ancient times, and refers to ``ex Oratione Ciceronis
pro Roscio Comaedo''; and he adds: ``That the one side of
their booke was used for Debitor, the other for Creditor,
is manifest in a certaine place, Naturalis Historiae Plinii,
lib. 2, cap. 7, where hee, speaking of Fortune, saith thus:

      Huic Omnia Expensa.
     Huic Omnia Feruntur accepta et in tota Ratione mortalium sola
   Utramque Paginam facit.''
An early Dutch writer appears to have suggested that double-entry
book-keeping was even in existence among the Greeks, pointing
to scientific accountancy having been invented in remote times.

There were several editions of Richard Dafforne's book
printed---the second edition having been published in
1636, the third in 1656, and another was issued in
1684.  The book is a very complete treatise on scientific
accountancy, it was beautifully prepared and contains
elaborate explanations; the numerous editions tend to
prove that the science was highly appreciated in the 17th
century.  From this time there has been a continuous supply
of literature on the subject, many of the authors styling
themselves accountants and teachers of the art, and thus
proving that the professional accountant was then known and
employed.  Very early in the 18th century the services of an
accountant practising in the city of London were made use of
in the course of an investigation into the transactions of
a director of the South Sea Company, who had been dealing in
the company's stock.  During this investigation the accountant
appears to have examined the books of at least two firms of
merchants.  His report is described Observations made upon
examining the books of Sawbridge and Company, by Charles
Snell, Writing Master and Accountant in Foster Lane, London.

In 1799, when Holden's Triennial Directory of London,
Westminster and Southwark was first published, 11
individuals and firms were therein described as accountants;
in the same directory, for the period 1809-1811, the
number had risen to 24; and in that for 1822--1824,
there were 73 firms of practising accountants recorded.

Modern development.

The earliest English books dealing with scientific book-keeping
were written at a time when the English and Dutch were very
actively engaged in foreign trade, in succession to the
Italian merchants of the 14th, 15th and 16th centuries;
but it was not until the beginning of the 19th century
that, in consequence of the adoption of improved methods
of manufacture and transit, resulting from the application
of water and steam power to manufactures and methods of
conveyance which largely increased the trade of Great Britain,
the profession of an accountant became one which men of
scientific knowledge and capacity adopted for their business
career.  Corporations and companies were formed to carry
out large operations previously either left to the state
or not undertaken, and for the development of trades and
manufactures which were becoming less profitable when carried
on by hand labour and with limited capital; and, for these,
the services of public accountants were necessarily required
to devise systems of accounts and methods of control, and
to enable the results of the various transactions carried on
to be ascertained with the least waste of power or chance of
loss by negligence or fraud. The large number of companies
formed in 1843 and 1844, when a great amount of capital was
invested in railways and extensive speculation resulted,
also added to the demand for the services of professional
accountants.  The Companies' Clauses Consolidation Act 1845
made provision for the audit of the accounts of companies
regulated by act of parliament, and gave some extensive
powers to the auditors, who are now, to a very large extent,
selected from among professional accountants.  The Companies
Act of 1862 led to a large extension of the business of
accountants, both as auditors and liquidators of companies;
and the acts relating to bankruptcy passed between the years
1831 and 1883 added to the work devolving on professional
accountants.  The Companies Act 1879, which affected banking
companies, made provision for the audit of their accounts,
and it has been found desirable, in most cases, to appoint
professional accountants to this duty.  The experience
and professional knowledge of trained accountants have, in
fact, been utilized by their appointment as auditors in the
majority of joint-stock companies, whether manufacturing,
banking, trading or created for any other purpose.  Until
the Companies Act 1900 was passed there was no general
obligation upon limited companies to have auditors; this
act not only requires that auditors shall be appointed
in all cases, but provides for their remuneration, and
to a limited extent defines their rights and duties.  The
legislature evidently did not find it easy to formulate at
all clearly the duties of auditors, and it seems reasonable
to suppose that any general definition will prove an
impossibility, as the work which auditors undertake must
vary very widely, and depends largely upon the scope of
the operations the accounts of which are to be examined.

Duties.

The duties of practising accountants cover a very wide area:
they act as trustees, liquidators, receivers and managers of
businesses, the owners of which are in default or their
affairs in liquidation, both under the direction of the courts
and by appointment of creditors and others; they are largely
engaged as arbitrators, umpires and referees in differences
relating to matters of account or finance; they prepare
the accounts of executors and trustees, and the necessary
statements of affairs in cases of bankruptcy, both of firms
and companies; they prepare accounts for prosecutions in cases
of fraud and misconduct; and they are constantly called upon
to unravel and properly state the accounts of complicated
transactions.  Their services are commonly required to certify
the profits of businesses intended to be sold, either privately
or to companies by means of a published prospectus; and,
in cases of compulsory purchases of businesses by railway
companies and public bodies, the statements of the profits
of the businesses to be acquired are generally made by
them.  In a very large number of financial operations they
are called upon to give advice and prepare accounts, and
in few business matters requiring arithmetical calculations
or involving the investigation of figures, and particularly
where a considerable acquaintanceship with the principles
of law is needed, are their services not utilized.

Auditors.

One of the most important duties undertaken by accountants
is the audit of accounts, and this duty has, of late years,
been widely extended.  Originally, auditors were appointed
to examine and vouch statements of receipts and payments;
but the provisions made in acts of parliament in relation to
audit, and the requirements of most articles of association
of limited companies, put much graver responsibilities on
auditors, who are now generally required to certify to the
accuracy of balance sheets and of revenue and other accounts,
the performance of which duties involves far more knowledge
of accounts than was once required.  The efficiency, in
most cases, of audits conducted by skilled accountants has
led the public to attach exceptional value to their audit
certificates, and to demand extensive knowledge and ability
in the conduct of the audit of the accounts of public
companies.  One other requirement which is generally regarded
as indispensable, is that the work of audit should be very
expeditiously performed; for it is easy to understand that,
were the presentation of the accounts of a company and the
distribution of dividends materially delayed in consequence
of the audit, much inconvenience would result, while the value
of the criticism of the accounts of business operations would
be much deteriorated if it could not be made very shortly
after the accounts were closed.  In these circumstances,
in the cases of large concerns with wide ramifications and
numerous transactions, it is necessary that auditors should
have the help of trained assistants, and thus the personal
examination of details by the auditor himself is, to a large
extent, rendered unnecessary and the cost of audit materially
reduced.  This delegation of duty by auditors is generally
well understood, and is in accordance with the requirements
of those concerned; but there has been a tendency of late
years to enlarge the responsibilities of auditors to an
extent which, if persisted in, might render it dangerous
for men of reputation and means to accept the duties.

Organization.

While the number of practising accountants has of late years
been steadily increasing and their services are correspondingly
appreciated, the necessity for controlling those exercising
the profession and for improving its status has  naturally
become apparent.  The first important steps in this direction
were taken by the accountants in Scotland--the Society of
Accountants in Edinburgh being incorporated by royal charter
in 1854; similar societies in Glasgow and Aberdeen being also
incorporated by charter in 1855 and 1867. The Institute of
Accountants was formed in London in 1870, but did not receive
a royal charter until the 11th May 1880, when all the then
existing accountants' societies and institutes in England
were incorporated as the Institute of Chartered Accountants
in England and Wales, and means were provided by which all
the then practising accountants in these countries could
claim membership thereof.  In the year 1885 the Society of
Accountants and Auditors was incorporated, but has obtained
no charter; this body, while numbering among its members a
considerable number of practising accountants in the United
Kingdom, also includes treasurers and accountants to cities and
boroughs in England, as well as clerks to chartered and other
accountants.  A large proportion of its members also consists
of accountants practising abroad.  In 1888 an Institute of
Chartered Accountants was formed in Ireland, and a great
many institutes and societies have been formed in the British
colonies and in the United States, some of which have local
charters. It is curious to note, however, that, outside the
United Kingdom, it was only in the British colonies that
associations of practising accountants existed, until, in
1895, an Institute of Accountants (Nederlands Instituut van
Accountants) was founded in Utrecht for Dutch accountants;
when, although the principles of accountancy have been well
understood and practised in Holland since the 16th century,
and probably earlier, it was found necessary to borrow the
words ``accountant'' and ``accountancy'' from the English
language to convey to the Dutch an idea of the meaning of the
terms.  Three others have since been formed, the Nederlandsche
Academie van Accountants (1902); the Nationale Organisatie van
Accountants (1903); and the Nederlandsche Bond van Accountants
(1902).  Sweden has a society, Svenska Revisorsamfundet,
formed in 1899; Belgium, the Chambre Syndicate des Experts
Comptables, founded in 1903. In South America, accountants
have acquired a certain status in Argentina, Uruguay and Peru.

In the United States the organization of professional
accountants is of quite recent growth.  The first society
formed in America was ``The New York State Society of Certified
Public Accountants,'' and shortly afterwards (in 1896) the
New York state legislature passed an act authorizing the
State university to confer the degree of certified public
accountant (C.P.A.) on the members of the society, while
requiring all subsequent entrants to pass an examination.
This degree, however, can be obtained, like other university
degrees, without being a member of the society.  Other
states, notably Pennsylvania, Maryland, California, Illinois,
Washington and New Jersey, have followed the example of New
York.  In 1903 the various state societies formed themselves
into a federation.  There is also an independent society of
practising accountants, the American Association of Public
Accountants, with objects similar to those of the federation,
but steps have been taken to bring about an amalgamation between
the two in order to form one central society to look after
their common interests, without, however, interfering with
the individual organization of the various state societies.

See R. Brown, History of Accounting and Accountants
(Edinburgh), 1905, the most comprehensive book upon the
subject; also G. W. Haskins, Accountancy, its Past and
Present (U.S.A., 1900); S. S. Dawson, Accountant's
Compendium; G. Lisle, Accounting in Theory and Practice
(1899); F. W. Pixley, Auditors and their Liabilities
(1901).  The professional periodicals, The Accountant (vol.
i., 1877); Accountant's Journal (vol. i., 1883-1884);
The Accountants' Magazine (vol. i., 1897); Incorporated
Accountants' Journal (vol. i., 1889-1890); Accountics
(U.S.A., vol. i., 1897) may also be consulted, and also the
Year-books of the Society of Accountants and Auditors, and
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants. (J. G. GR.)

ACCOUTREMENT (a French word, probably derived from a and
coustre or coutre, an old word meaning one who has
charge of the vestments in a church), clothing, apparel;
a term used especially, in the plural, of the military
equipment of a soldier other than his arms and clothing.

ACCRA, a port on the Gulf of Guinea in 5 deg.  31' N., 0 deg.
12' W., since 1876 capital of the British Gold Coast
colony.  Population about 20,000, including some 150
Europeans.  Accra is about 80 m.  E. of Cape Coast (q.v.),
the former capital of the colony. The name is derived from
the Fanti word Nkran (an ant), by which designation the
tribe inhabiting the surrounding district was formerly
known.  The town grew up around three forts established in
close proximity--St James (British), Crevecoeur (Dutch)
and Christiansborg (Danish).  The last named was ceded to
Britain in 1850, Crevecoeur not till 1871.  Fort St James
is now used as a signal station, lighthouse and prison.
Accra preserves the distinctions of James Town, Ussher
Town and Christiansborg, indicative of its tripartite
origin.  Ussher Town represents Crevecoeur, the fort being
renamed after H. T. Ussher, administrator of the Gold Coast
(1867-1872).  The sea frontage extends about three miles;
there is, however, no harbour, and steamers have to lie
about a mile out, goods and passengers being landed in surf
boats.  The streets formerly consisted largely of mud
hovels, but since a great fire in 1894, which destroyed
large parts of James Town and Ussher Town, more substantial
buildings have been erected.  Christiansborg, the finest of
the three forts, is the official residence of the governor
of the colony.  Westwards of the landing-place, where is
the customs house, lies James Town.  Beyond the fort are
various public buildings leading to Otoo Street, the main
thoroughfare, which runs two miles in a straight line to
Christiansborg.  This street contains a fine stone church
built in 1895 for the use of the Anglican community, a
branch of the Bank of British West Africa, telegraph offices
and the establishments of the principal trading firms.  In
Victoriaborg, a suburb of Ussher Town, are the residences
of the principal officials, and here a racecourse has been
laid out. (Accra is almost the only point along the Gold
Coast where horses thrive.) Behind the town is rolling grass
land, which gives place to the highlands of Aquapim and
Akim.  At Aburi in the Aquapim hills, 26 m.  N. by E. of
Accra, are the government sanatorium and botanical gardens.

Accra, the first town in the Gold Coast colony to be
raised (July 1, 1896) to the rank of a municipality, is
governed by a town council with power to raise and spend
money.  The council consists in equal proportions of
nominated and elected members, no racial distinctions being
made.  Accra is connected by cable with Europe and South
Africa, and is the sea terminus of a railway serving the
districts N.E., where are flourishing cocoa plantations.

ACCRETION (from Lat. ad, to, and crescere, to grow),
an addition to that which already exists; increase in any
substance by the addition of particles from the outside.  In
law, the term is used for the increase of property caused by
gradual natural additions, as on a river bank or seashore.

ACCRINGTON, a market town and municipal borough in the
Accrington parliamentary division of Lancashire, England,
208 m.  N.W. by N. from London, and 23 m.  N. by W. from
Manchester, on the Lancashire and Yorkshire railway.  Pop.
(1891) 38,603; (1901) 43,122.  It lies in a deep valley on
the Hindburn, a feeder of the Calder.  Cotton spinning and
printing works, cotton-mill machinery works, dye-works and
chemical manufactures, and neighbouring collieries maintain
the industrial population.  The church of St James dates
from 1763, and the other numerous places of worship and
public buildings are all modern.  The borough is under a
mayor, 8 aldermen and 24 councillors.  Area 3427 acres.

Accrington (Akerenton, Alkerington, Akerington) was granted by
Henry de Lacy to Hugh son of Leofwine in Henry II.'s reign, but
came again into the hands of the Lacys, and was given by them
about 1200 to the monks of Kirkstall, who converted it into a
grange.  It again returned, however, to the Lacys in 1287,
was granted in parcels, and like their other lands became
merged in the duchy of Lancaster.  In 1553 the commissioners
of chantries sold the chapel to the inhabitants to be
continued as a place of divine service.  In 1836 Old and New
Accrington were merely straggling villages with about 5000
inhabitants.  By 1861 the population had grown to 17,688,
chiefly owing to its position as an important railway
junction.  A charter of incorporation was granted in
1878.  The date of the original chapel is unknown, but it
was probably an oratory which was an offshoot of Kirkstall
Abbey.  Ecclesiastically the place was dependent on
Altham till after the middle of the 19th century.

ACCUMULATION (from Lat. accumulare, to heap up), strictly
a piling-up of anything; technically, in law, the continuous
adding of the interest of a fund to the principal, for the
benefit of some person or persons in the future.  Previous
to 1800, this accumulation of property was not forbidden
by English law, provided the period during which it was to
accumulate did not exceed that forbidden by the law against
perpetuities, viz. the period of a life or lives in being,
and twenty-one years afterwards.  In 1800, however, the law
was amended in consequence of the eccentric will of Peter
Thellusson (1737--1797), an English merchant, who directed
the income of his property, consisting of real estate of the
annual value of about L. 5000 and personal estate amounting
to over L. 600,000, to be accumulated during the lives of his
children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren, living at the
time of his death, and the survivor of them. The property so
accumulated, which, it is estimated, would have amounted to
over L. 14,000,000, was to be divided among such descendants
as might be alive on the death of the survivor of those lives
during which the accumulation was to continue. The bequest
was held valid (Thellusson v.  Woodford, 1798, 4 Vesey,
237).  In 1856 there was a protracted lawsuit as to who were
the actual heirs.  It was decided by the House of Lords (June
9, 1859) in favour of Lord Rendlesham and Charles Sabine Augustus
Thellusson.  Owing, however, to the heavy expenses, the amount
inherited was not much larger than that originally bequeathed.

To prevent such a disposition of property in the future, the
Accumulations Act 1800 (known also as the ``Thellusson Act'')
was passed, by which it was enacted that no property should
be accumulated for any longer term than either (1) the life
of the settlor; or (2) the term of twenty-one years from
his death; or (3) during the minority of any person living
or en ventre sa mere at the time of the death of the
grantor; or (4) during the minority of any person who, if
of full age, would be entitled to the income directed to be
accumulated.  The act, however, did not extend to any provision
for payment of the debts of the grantor or of any other
person, nor to any provision for raising portions for the
children of the settlor, or any person interested under the
settlement, nor to any direction touching the produce of timber
or wood upon any lands or tenements.  The act was extended
to heritable property in Scotland by the Entail Amendment Act
1848, but does not apply to property in Ireland. The act
was further amended by the Accumulations Act 1892, which
forbids accumulations for the purpose of the purchase of
land for any longer period than during the minority of any
person or persons who, if of full age, would be entitled to
receive the income. (See also TRUST and PERPETUITY.)

ACCUMULATOR, the term applied to a number of devices whose
function is to store energy in one form or another, as, for
example, the hydraulic accumulator of Lord Armstrong (see
HYDRAULICS, sec.  179).  In the present article the term is
restricted to its use in electro-technology, in which it
describes a special type of battery.  The ordinary voltaic
cell is made by bringing together certain chemicals, whose
reaction maintains the electric currents taken from the
cell.  When exhausted, such cells can be restored by replacing
the spent materials, by a fresh ``charge'' of the original
substances.  But in some cases it is not necessary to get rid
of the spent materials, because they can be brought back to
their original state by forcing a reverse current through the
cell.  The reverse current reverses the chemical action and
re-establishes the original conditions, thus enabling the
cell to repeat its electrical work.  Cells which can thus be
``re-charged'' by the action of a reverse current are called
accumulators because they ``accumulate'' the chemical work
of an electric current.  An accumulator is also known as a
``reversible battery,'' ``storage battery'' or ``secondary
battery.'' The last name dates from the early days of
electrolysis.  When a liquid like sulphuric acid was electrolysed
for a moment with the aid of platinum electrodes, it was
found that the electrodes could themselves produce a current
when detached from the primary battery.  Such a current was
attributed to an ``electric polarization'' of the electrodes,
and was regarded as having a secondary nature, the implication
being that the phenomenon was almost equivalent to a storage
of electricity. It is now known that the platinum electrodes
stored, not electricity, but the products of electro-chemical
decomposition.  Hence if the two names, secondary and storage
cells, are used, they are liable to be misunderstood
unless the interpretation now put on them be kept in mind.
``Reversible battery'' is an excellent name for accumulators.

Sir W. R. Grove first used ``polarization'' effects in his gas
battery, but R. L. G. Plante (1834-1889) laid the foundation
of modern methods.  That he was clear as to the function
of an accumulator is obvious from his declaration that the
lead-sulphuric acid cell could retain its charge for a long
time, and had the power d'emmagasiner ainsi le travail chimique
de la pile voltaique: a phrase whose accuracy could not be
excelled. Plante began his work on electrolytic polarization
in 1859, his object being to investigate the conditions under
which its maximum effects can be produced.  He found that the
greatest storage and the most useful electric effects were
obtained by using lead plates in dilute sulphuric acid.  After
some ``forming'' operations described below, he obtained a
cell having a high electromotive force, a low resistance, a
large capacity and almost perfect freedom from polarization.

The practical value of the lead-peroxide-sulphuric-acid
cell arises largely from the fact that not only are the
active materials (lead and lead peroxide, PbO2) insoluble
in the dilute acid, but that the sulphate of lead formed
from them in the course of discharge is also insoluble.
Consequently, it remains fixed in the place where it is
formed; and on the passage of the charging current, the
original PbO2 and lead are reproduced in the places they
originally occupied.  Thus there is no material change in
the distribution of masses of active material.  Lastly,
the active materials are in a porous, spongy condition,
so that the acid is within reach of all parts of them.

Plante's cell.

Plante carefully studied the changes which occur in the
formation, charge and discharge of the cell.  In forming,
he placed two sheets of lead in sulphuric acid, separating
them by narrow strips of caoutchouc (fig. 1). When a charging
current is sent through the cell, the hydrogen liberated
at one plate escapes, a small quantity possibly being spent
in reducing the surface film of oxide generally found on
lead.  Some of the oxygen is always fixed on the other
(positive) plate, forming a surface film of peroxide.  After
a few minutes the current is reversed so that the first
plate is peroxidized, and the peroxide previously formed
on the second plate is reduced to metallic lead in a spongy
state.  By repeated reversals, the surface of each plate
is alternately peroxidized and reduced to metallic lead.
In successive oxidations, the action penetrates farther
into the plate, furnishing each time a larger quantity
of spongy PbO2 on one plate and of spongy lead on the
other.  It follows that the duration of the successive
charging currents also increases.  At the beginning. a
few minutes suffice; at the end, many hours are required.


      Fig. 1
After the first six or eight cycles, Plante allowed a
period of repose before reversing.  He claimed that the
PbO2 formed by reversal after repose was more strongly
adherent, and also more crystalline than if no repose were
allowed.  The following figures show the relative amounts of
oxygen absorbed by a given plate in successive charges (between
one charge and the next the plate stood in repose for the
time stated, then was reduced, and again charged as anode):-



      Separate periods of             Charge.   Relative amount of
         Repose.                                 Peroxide formed.
          .  .                         First         1.0
        18 hours                       Second        1.57
         2 days                        Third         1.71
         4 days                        Fourth        2.14
         2 days                        Fifth         2.43


and so on for many days (Gladstone and Tribe, Chemistry
of Secondary Batteries). Seeing that each plate is in turn
oxidized and then reduced, it is evident that the spongy
lead will increase at the same rate on the other plate of the
cell.  The process of ``forming'' thus briefly described
was not continued indefinitely, but only till a fair
proportion of the thickness of the plates was converted
into the spongy material, PbO2 and Pb respectively.  After
this, reversal was not permitted, the cell being put into
use and always charged in a given direction.  If the process
of forming by reversal be continued, the positive plate is
ultimately all converted into PbO, and falls to pieces.

Plante made excellent cells by this method, yet three
objections were urged against them.  They required too much
time to ``form''; the spongy masses (PbO2 more especially)
fell off for want of mechanical supoort, and the separating
strips of caoutchouc were not likely to have a long life.
The first advance was made by C. A. Faure (1881), who greatly
shortened the time required for ``forming'' by giving the
plates a preliminary coating of red lead, whereby the slow
precess of biting into the metal was avoided. At the first
charging, the red lead on the + electrode is changed to
PbO2, while that on the - etectrode is reduced to spongy
lead. Thus one continuous operation, lasting perhaps
sixty hours, takes the place of many reversals, which,
with periods of repose, last as much as three months.

 Fig. 2 Tudor positive plate.

Faure used felt as a separating membrane, but its use
was soon abolished by methods of construction due to E.
Volckmar, J. S. Sellon, J. W. Swan and others.  These
inventors put the paste not on to plates of lead, but into
the holes of a grid, which, when carefully designed, affords
good mechanical support to the spongy masses, and does away
with the necessity for felt, &c. They are more satisfactory,
however, as supporters or spongy lead than of the peroxide,
since at the point of contact in the latter case the acid
gives rise to a local action, which slowly destroys the
grid.  Disintegration follows sooner or later, though the
best makers are able to defer the failure for a fairly long
time. Efforts have been made by A. Tribe, D. G. Fitzgerald
and others to dispense whin a supporting grid for the positive
plate, but these attempts have not yet been successful
enough to enable them to compete with the other forms.

For many years the battle between the ``Plante'' type and the
Faure or ``pasted'' type has been one in which the issue was
doubtful, but the general tendency is towards a mixed type
at the present time.  There are many good cells, the value of
all resting on the care exercised during the manufacture and
also in the choice of pure materials.  Increasing emphasis is
laid on the purity of the water used to replace that lost by
evaporation, distilled water generally being specified.  The
following descriptions will give a good idea of modern practice.

Chloride cell.

The ``chloride cell'' has a Plante positive with a pasted
negative.  For the positive a lead casting is made, about 0.4
inch thick pierced by a number of circular holes about half
an inch in diameter.  Into each of these holes is thrust a
roll or rosette of lead ribbon, which has been cut to the
right breadth (equal to the thickness of the plate), then
ribbed or gimped, and finally coiled into a rosette.  The
rosettes have sufficient spring to fix themselves in the
holes of the lead plate, but are keyed in position by a
hydraulic press.  The plates are then ``formed'' by passing
a current for a long time.  In a later pattern a kind of
discontinuous longitudinal rib is put in the ribbon, and
increases the capacity and life by strengthening the mass


  Fig. 3.--Tudor negative plate.
without interfering with the diffusion of acid. The
negative plate was formerly obtained by reducing pastilles
of lead chloride, but by a later mode of construction
it is made by casting a grid with thin vertical ribs,
connected horizontally by small bars of triangular
section.  The bars on the two faces are ``staggered,''
that is, those on one face are not opposite those on the
other.  The grid is pasted with a lead oxide paste and
afterwards reduced; this is known as the ``exide'' negative.

The larger sizes of negative plate are of a ``box'' type, formed
by riveting together two grids and filling the intervening space


 Fig. 4. Fig. 5. Fig. 6
with paste.  A feature of the ``chloride'' cells is the use
of separators made of thin sheets of specially prepared
wood, These prevent short circuits arising from scales of
active material or from the formation of ``trees'' of lead
which sometimes grow across in certain forms of battery.

Tudor cell.

The Tudor cell has positives formed of lead plates cast in one
piece with a large surface of thin vertical ribs, intersected
at intervals by horizontal ribs to give the plates strength to
withstand buckling in both directions (fig. 2). The thickness
of the plates is about 0.4 inch, and the developed surface is
about eight times that of a smooth plate of the same size.
A thoroughly adherent and homogeneous coating of peroxide of
lead is formed on this large surface by an improved Plante
process.  The negative plate (fig. 3) is composed of two grids
riveted together to form a shallow box; the outer surfaces are
smooth sheets pierced with many small holes.  The space between
them is intersected by ribs and pasted (before riveting).

E.P.S. cell.

Many of the E.P.S. ceils, made by the Electrical Power
Storage Company, are of the Faure or pasted type, but the
Plante formation is used for the positives of two kinds of
cell.  The paste for the positive plates is a mixture of
red lead with sulphuric acid; for the negative plates,
litharge is substituted for red lead.  Figs. 4 and




FIG. 7.

5 roughly represent the grids employed for the negative and
positive plates respectively of a type used for lighting.  Fig. 6
is the cross section of the casting used for the Plante positive
of the larger cells for rapid discharge.  Finer indentations on
the side expose a large surface.  Fig. 7 shows a complete cell.

Hart cell.

The Hart cell, as used for lighting, is a combination of the
Plante and Faure (pasted) types.  The plates hang by side
lugs on glass slats, and are separated by three rows of glass
tubes 3/8 inch diameter (fig. 8). The tubes rest in grooved
teak wood blocks placed at the bottom of the glass boxes.
The blocks also serve as base for a skeleton framework of the
same material which surrounds and supports the section.  Of
course the wood has to be specially treated to withstand the
acid. A special non-corrosive terminal is used.  A coned bolt
draws the lug ends of adjacent cells together, fitting in a
corresponding tapered hole in the lugs, and thus increasing
the contact area.  The positive and negative tapers being
different, a cell cannot be connected up in the wrong way.

 FIG. 8.--Hart Accumulator.

Gould cell.

In America, in addition to some of the cells already
described, there are types which are not found in England.
Two may be described.  The Gould cell is of the Plante
type.  A special effort is made to reduce local and other
deleterious action by starting with perfectly homogeneous
plates. They are formed from sheet lead blanks by suitable
machines, which  gradually raise the surface into a series
of ribs and grooves.  The sides and middle of the blank
are left untouched and amply suffice to distribute the
current over the surface of the plate.  The grooves are
very fine, and when the active material is formed in them
by electro-chemical action, they hold it very securely.

Hatch cell.

The Hatch cell has its positive enclosed in an envelope.
A very shallow porous tray (made of kaolin and silica) is
filled with red lead paste, an electrode of rolled sheet lead
is placed on its surface, and over this again is placed a
second porous tray filled with paste.  The whole then looks
like a thin earthenware box with the lug of the electrode
projecting from one end.  The negatives consist of sheet
lead covered by active material.  On assembling the plates,
each negative is held between two positive ``boxes,'' the
outsides of which have protecting vertical ribs.  These press
against the active material on the negative plates, and help
to keep it in position.  At the same time, the clearance
between the ribs allows room for acid to circulate freely
between the negative plate and the outer face of the positive
envelope.  Diffusion of the acid through this envelope is
easy, as it is very porous and not more than 1/32 inch thick.

Traction Cells.---Attempts to run tramcars by accumulators
have practically all failed, but traction cells are employed
for electric broughams and light vehicles for use in
towns.  There are no large deviations in manufacture except
those imposed by limited space, weight and vibration.  The
plates are generally thinner and placed closer together.
The Plante positive is not used so much as in lighting
types.  The acid is generally a little stronger in order
to get a higher electromotive force (E.M.F.). To prevent
the active material from being shaken out of the grids,
corrugated and perforated ebonite separators are placed
between the plates.  The ``chloride'' traction cell uses
a special variety of wood separator: the ``exide'' type
of plate is used for both positive and negative.  Cells
are now made to run 3000 or more miles before becoming
useless.  The specific output can be made as high as 10 or
11 watt-hours per pound of cell, but this involves a chance
of shorter life.  The average working requirement for heavy
vehicles is about 50 watt-hours per 1000 lb. per mile.

Ignition Cells for motor cars are made on the same lines
as traction cells, though of smaller capacity.  As a
rule two cells are put up in ebonite or celluloid boxes
and joined in series so as to give a 4-volt battery, the
pressure for which sparking coils are generally designed.
The capacity ranges from 20 to 100 ampere-hours, and the
current for a single cylinder engine will average one
to one and a half amperes during the running intervals.

General Features.--The tendency in stationary cells is to
allow plenty of space below the plates, so that any active
material which falls from the plates may collect there without
risk of short-circuit, &c. More space is allowed between
the plates, which means that (a) there is more acid within
reach, and (b) a slight buckling is not so dangerous, and
indeed is not so likely to occur.  The plates are now generally
made thicker than formerly, so as to secure greater mechanical
rigidity.  At the same time, the manufacturers aim at getting
the active materials in as porous a state as possible.

The figures with regard to specific output are difficult to
classify.  It would be most interesting to give the data
in the form of watt-hours per pound of active material,
and then to compare them with the theoretical values,
but such figures are impossible in the nature of the case
except in very special instances.  For many purposes, long
life and trustworthiness are more important than specific
output.  Except in the case of traction cells, therefore,
the makers have not striven to reduce weight to its lowest
values.  Table I. shows roughly the weight of given
types of cells for a given output in ampere hours.



                          TABLE I.
                    Capacity in ampere-hours if
    Type of cell.         discharged in                  Weight of cell.
                    9 hrs.   6 hrs.    3 hrs.   1 hr.
   Ordinary light-
    ing . . . . .    200      182       153      101      100 pounds
       ''     ''     420      380       300      210      200 pounds
       ''     ''    1200     1080       880      600      670 pounds
   Central station
    and High Rate   3500     3100      2500     1700     2000 pounds
       ''     ''    6000     5400      4400     3000     3200 pounds
    Traction . . .   220      185       155      125       40 pounds
       ''    . . .    ..      440       ..       ..        90 pounds



Influence of Temperature on Capacity.---These figures are
true only at ordinary temperatures.  In winter the capacity
is diminished, in summer it is increased.  The differences
are due partly to change of liquid resistance but more
especially to the difference in the rate at which acid
can diffuse into or out of the pores: obviously this is
greater at higher temperatures.  The increase in capacity
on warming is appreciable, and may amount to as much as
3% per degree centigrade (Gladstone and Hibbert, Journ.
Inst.  Elec.  Eng. xxi. 441; Helm, Electrician, NOV.
1901, i. 55; Liagre, L'Eclairage electrique, 1901,xxix.
150). Notwithstanding these results, it is not advisable to
warm accumulators appreciably.  At higher temperatures, local
action is greatly increased and deterioration becomes more
rapid.  It is well, however, to avoid low winter temperatures.

Working of accumulators.--Whatever the type of cell may
be, it is important to attend to the following working
requirements--(1) The cells must be fully equal to the maximum
demand, both in discharge rate and capacity. (2) All the
cells in one series ought to be equal in discharge rate and
capacity.  This involves similarity of treatment. (3) The
cells are erected on strong wooden stands. Where floor space
is too expensive, they can be erected in tiers; but, if
possible, this should be avoided.  They ought to lie in rows,
so arranged that it is easy to get to one side (at least)
of every cell, for examination and testing, and if need be
to detach and remove it or its plates.  Where a second tier
is plaeed over the first, sufficient clearance space must
be allowed for the plates to be lifted out of the lower
boxes.  The cells are insulated by supporting them on glass
or mushroom-shaped oil insulators.  If the containing vessels
are made of glass, it it desirable to put them in wooden
trays which distribute the weight between the vessel and
insulators.  To prevent acid spray from filling the air of
the room, a glass plate is arranged over each cell.  The
positive and negative sections are fixed in position with
insulating forks or tubes, and the positive terminal of one
cell is joined to the negative of the next by burning or
bolting.  If the latter method is adopted, the surfaces ought
to be very clean and well pressed home.  The joint ought to
be covered by vaseline or varnish.  When this has been done,
examination ought to be made of each cell to see that the
plates are evenly spaced, that the separators (glass tubes
or ebonite forks between the plates) are in position and
vertical, and that there are no scales or other adventitious
matter connecting the plates.  The floor of the cell ought to
be quite clear; if anything lies there it must be removed. (4)
To mix the solution a gentle stream of sulphuric acid must
be poured into the water (not the other way, lest too great
heating cause an accident). It is necessary to stir the whole
as the mixing proceeds and to arrange that the density is
about 1190, or according to the recommendation of the maker.
About five volumes of water ought to be taken to one volume of
acid.  After mixing, allow to cool for two or three hours. The
strong acid ought to be free from arsenic, copper and other
similar impurities.  The water ought to be as pure as can
be obtained, distilled water being best; rain water is also
good.  If potable water be employed, it will generally be
improved by boiling, which removes some of the lime held in
solution.  The impurity in ordinary drinking water is very
slight; but as all cells lose by evaporation and require
additions of water from time to time, there is a tendency
for it to increase.  The acid must not be put into the cells
till everything is ready for charging. (5) A shunt-wound
or separately-excited dynamo being ready and running so as
to give at will 2.6 or 2.7 volts per cell, the acid is run
into the cells.  As soon as this is done, the dynamo must be
switched on and charging commenced.  The positive terminal
of the dynamo must be joined to the positive terminal of the
battery.  If necessary, the + end of the machine must be
found by a trial cell made of two plain lead sheets in dilute
acid.  It is important also to maintain this first charging
operation for a long time without a break.  Twelve hours
is a minimum time, twenty-four not too much.  The charging
is not even then complete, though a short interval is not
so injurious as in the earlier stage.  The full charge
required varies with the cells, but in all types a full
and practically continuous first charge is imperatively
necessary.  During the early part of this charge the density
of the acid may fall; but after a time ought to increase, and
finally reach the value desired for permanent working.  Towards
the end of the ``formation'' vigilant observation must be
exercised.  It is important to notice whether any cells are
appreciably behind the others in voltage, density or gassing.
Such cells may be faulty, and in any case they must be charged
and tended till their condition is like that of the others.
They ought not to go on the discharge circuit till this is
assured.  The examination of the cells before passing them
as ready for discharge includes:---(a) Density of acid as
shown by the hydrometer. (b) Voltage.  This may be taken
when charging or when idle.  In the first case it ought to
be from 2.4 to 2.6 volts, according to conditions.  In the
second ease it ought to be just over 2 volts, provided that
the observation is not taken too soon after switching in the
charging current.  For about half an hour after that is done,
the E.M.F. has a transient high value, so that, if it be
desired to get the proper E.M.F. of the cell, the observation
must be taken thirty minutes after the charging ceases.

(c) Eye observations of the plates and the acid between
them.  The positive plates ought to show a rich dark brown
colour, the negatives a dull slate-blue, and the space between
ought to be quite clear and free from anything like solid
matter.  All the positives ought to be alike, and similarly
all the negatives.  If the cells show similarity in these
respects they will probably be in good working order.

As to management, it is important to keep to certain simple
rules, of which these are the chief:--(1) Never discharge below
a potential difference of 1.85 (or in rapid discharge, 1.8)
volt. (2) Never leave the cells discharged, if it be avoidable.
(3) Give the cells a special full charging once a month. (4)
Make a periodic examination of each cell, determining its
E.M.F., density of acid, the condition of its plates and
freedom from growth.  Any incipient growth, however small, must
be carefully watched. (5) If any cell shows signs of weakness,
keep it off discharge till it has been brought back to full
condition. See that it is free from any connexion between
the plates which would cause short-circuiting; tne frame or
support which carries the plates sometimes gets covered by
a conducting layer.  To restore the cell, two methods can be
adopted.  In private installations it may be disconnected
and charged by one or two cells reserved for the purpose;
or, as is preferable, it may be left in circuit, and a cell
in good order put in parallel with it.  This acts as a
``milking'' cell, not only preventing the faulty one from
discharging, but keeping it supplied mith a charging current
till its potential difference (P.D.) is normal. Every
battery attendant should be provided with a hydrometer and a
voltmeter.  The former enables him to determine from time
to time the density of the acid in the cells; instruments
specially constructed for the purpose are now easily procurable,
and it is desirable that one be provided for every 20 or 25
cells.  The voltmeter should read up to about 3 volts and
be fitted with a suitable connector to enable contacts to
be made quickly with any desired cell. A portable glow lamp
should also be available, so that a full light can be thrown
into any cell; a frosted bulb is rather better than a clear
one for this purpose.  He must also have some form of wooden
scraper to remove any growth from the plates.  The scraping
must be done gently, with as little other disturbance as
possible.  By the ordinary operations which go on in the
cell, small portions of the plates become detached.  It is
important that these should fall below the plates, lest they
short-circuit the cell, and therefore sufficient space ought to
be left between the bottom of the plates and the floor of the
cell for these ``scalings'' to accumulate without touching the
plates.  It is desirable that they be disturbed as little
as possible till their increase seriously encroaches on the
free space. It sometimes happens that brass nuts or bolts,
&c., are dropped into a cell; these should be removed at
once, as their partial solution would greatly endanger
the negative plates.  The level of the liquid must be
kept above the top of the plates.  Experience shows the
advisability of using distilled water for this purpose.  It
may sometimes be necessary to replenish the solution with
some dilute acid, but strong acid must never be added.

The chief faults are buckling, growth, sulphating and
disintegration.  Buckling of the plates generally follows
excessive discharge, caused by abnormal load or by accidental
short-circuiting.  At such times asymmetry in the cell is apt
to make some part of the plate take much more than its share
of the current.  That part then expands unduly, as explained
later, and curvature is produced.  The only remedy is to
remove the plate, and press it back into shape as gently as
possible.  Growth arises generally from scales from one part
falling on some other--say, on the negative.  In the next
charging the scale is reduced to a projecting bit of lead,
which grows still further because other particles rest on
it.  The remedy is, gently to scrape off any incipient
growth.  Sulphating, the formation of a white hard surface
on the active material, is due to neglect or excessive
discharge.  It often yields if a small quantity of sulphate
of soda be added to the liquid in the cell.  Disintegration
is due to local action, and there is no ultimate remedy.
The end can be deferred by care in working, and by avoiding
strains and excessive discharge as much as possible.

Accumulators in repose.---Accumulators contain only three
active substances---spongy lead on the negative plate, spongy
lead peroxide on the positive, and dilute sulphuric acid between

                          TABLE


    Substance.         Colour.        Density.     Specific Resistance.
   Lead . . . .       slate blue        11.3         0.0000195 ohm
   Peroxide of lead   dark brown         9.28        5.6 to 6.8 ''
   Sulphuric acid
     after charge     clear liquid       1.210       1.37       ''
   Sulphuric acid
     after discharge    ''    ''         1.170       1.28       ''
   Sulphuric acid                       below
     in pores . . .     ''    ''         1.03        8.0        ''
   Sulphate of lead    white             6.3         non-conductor.


them.  Sulphate of lead is formed on both plates during
discharge and brought back to lead and lead peroxide
again during charge, and there is a consequent change
in the strength of acid during every cycle.  The chief
properties of these substances are shown in Table II.

The curve in fig. 9 shows the relative conductivity (reciprocal
of resistance) of all the strengths of sulphuric acid solutions,
and by its aid and the figures in the preceding table, the
specific resistance of any given strength can be determined.


Fig 9
The lead accumulator is subject to three kinds of local
action.  First and chiefly, local action on the positive
plate, because of the contact between lead peroxide and
the lead grid which supports it.  In carelessly made or
roughly handled cells this may be a very serious matter.
It would be so, in all circumstances if the lead sulphate
formed on the exposed lead grid did not act as a covering for
it.  It explains why Plante found ``repose'' a useful
help in ``forming,'' and also why positive plates slowly
disintegrate; the lead support is gradually eaten through.
Secondly, local action on the negative plate when a more
electro-negative metal settles on the lead.  This often
arises when the original paste or acid contains metallic
impurities.  Similar impurity is also introduced by scraping
copper wire, &c., near a battery.  Thirdly, local action
due to the acid varying in strength in different parts of a
plate.  This may arise on either plate and is set up because
two specimens of either the same lead or the same peroxide give
an E.M.F. when placed in acids of different strengths.  J.
H. Gladstone and W. Hibbert found that the E.M.F. depends
on the difference of strength.  With two head plates, a
maximum of about quarter volt was obtained, the lead in the
weaker acid being positive.  With two peroxide plates the
maximum voltage was about 0.64, the plate in stronger acid
being positive to that in weaker.  The electromotive force


FIG. 10.
of a cell depends chiefly on the strength of the acid,
as may be seen from fig. 10 taken from Gladstone and
Hibbert's paper (Journ.  Inst.  Elec.  Eng., 1892).The
observations with very strong acid were difficult to obtain,
though even that with 98% acid marked X is believed to be
trustworthy.  C. Heim (Elek.  Zeit, 1889), F. Streintz
(Ann. Phys.  Chem. xlvi. p. 449) and F. Dolezalek (Theory
of Lead Accumulators, p. 55) have also given tables.

It is only necessary to add to these results the facts
illustrated by the following diffusion curves, in order to get
a complete clue to the behaviour of an accumulator in active
work.  Fig. 11 shows the rate of diffusion from plates soaked
in 1.175 acid and then placed in distilled water.  It is
from a paper by L. Duncan and H. Wiegand (Elec.  World,
N.Y., 1889), who were the first to show the importance of
diffusion.  About one half the acid diffused out in 30
minutes, a good illustration of the slowness of this process.
The rate of diffusion is much the same for both positive
and negative plates; but slower for discharged plates than
for charged ones.  Discharge affects the rate of diffusion
on the lead plate more than on the peroxide plate. This is
in accordance with the density values given in Table I. For
while lead sulphate is formed in the pores of both plates,
the consequent expansions (and obstructions) are different;
100 volumes of lead form 290 volumes of sulphate (a threefold

 FIG. 11.

expansion), and 100 volumes of peroxide form 186 volumes of
sulphate (a twofold expansion).  The influence of diffusion
on the electromotive force is illustrated by fig. 12. A
cell was prepared with 20% acid.  It also held a porous pot
containing stronger acid, and into this the positive plate
was suddenly transferred from the general body of liquid.
The E.M.F. rose by diffusion of stronger acid into the
pores.  Curve I. in fig. 12 shows the rate of rise when the
porous pot contained 34% acid; curve II. was obtained with
the stronger (58%) acid (Gladstone and Hibbert, Phil.  Mag.,
1890).  Of these two curves the first is more useful, because
its conditions are nearer those which occur in practice.

At the end of a discharge it is a common thing for the plates
to be standing in 25% acid, while inside the pores the acid
may not exceed 8% or 10%. If the discharge be stopped, we have
conditions somewhat like fig. 12, and the E.M.F. begins to
rise. In one minute it has gone up by about 0.08 volt, &c.

 Fig. 12.

Charge and Discharge.---The most important practical
questions concerning an accumulator are:--its maximum rate
of working; its capacity at various discharge rates; its
efficiency; and its length of life.  Apart from mechanical
injury all these depend primarily on the way the cell is
made, and then on the method of charging and discharging.
For each type and size of cell there is a normal maximum
discharging current.  Up to this limit any current may
be taken; beyond it, the cell may suffer if discharge be
continued for any appreciable time.  The most important
point to attend to is the voltage at which discharge shall
cease.  The potential difference at terminals must not fall
below 1.80 volt during discharge at ordinary rates (10
hours) or 1.75 to 1.70 volt for 1 or 2 hour rate.  The reason
underlying the figures is simple.  These voltages indicate
that the acid in the pores is not being renewed fast enough,
and that if the discharge continue the chemical action will
change: sulphate will not be formed in situ for want of
acid.  Any such change in action is fatal to reversibility and
therefore to life and constancy in capacity.  To illustrate:
when at slow discharge rates the voltage is 1.80 volt, the
acid in the pores has weakened to a mean value of about
2.5% (see fig. 11), which is quite consistent with some part
of the interior being practically pure water.  With high
discharge rates, something like 0.1 volt may be lost in the
cells, by ordinary ohmic fall, so that a voltage reading of
1.73 means an E.M.F. of a little over 1.8 volt, and a very
weak density of the acid inside the pores. Guided by these
figures, an engineer can determine what ought to be the
permissible drop in terminal volts for any given working
conditions.  Messrs W. E. Ayrton, C. G. Lamb, E. W. Smith
and M. W. Woods were the first to trace the working of a cell
through varied conditions (Journ.  Inst.  Elec.  Eng., 1890),
and a brief resume of their results is given below.

They began by charging and discharging
between the limits of 2.4 and 1.6 volts.

Fig. 13 shows a typical discharge curve.  Noteworthy points are:--(1)
At the beginning and at the end there is a rapid fall in P.D.,
with an intermediate period of fairly uniform value. (2) When the

 Fig. 13.

P.D. reaches 1.6 volt the fall is so rapid that there is
no advantage in continuing the action.  When the P.D. had
fallen to 1.6 volt the cell was automatically switched into
a charging circuit, and with a current of 9 amperes yielded
the curve in fig. 14. Here again there is a rapid variation in
P.D. (in these cases a rise) at the beginning and end of the
operation.  The cells were now carried through the same cycle
several times, giving almost identical values for each cycle.
After some days, however, they became more and more difficult
to charge, and the return on discharge was proportionately
less.  It became impossible to charge up to a P.D. of 2.4
volts, and finally the capacity fell away to half its first
value.  Examination showed that the plates were badly scaled,
and that some of the scales had partially connected the
plates.  These scales were cleared away and the experiments
resumed, limiting the fall of P.D. to 1.8 volt.  The

 Fig. 14.

difficulties then disappeared, showing that discharge to 1.6
volt caused injury that did not arise at a limit of 1.8. Before
describing the new results it will be useful to examine these
two cases in the light of the theory of E.M.F. already given.

(a) Fall in E.M.F. at beginning of discharge.--At the
moment when previous charging ceases the pores of the positive
plate contain strong acid, brought there by the charging
current.  There is consequently a high E.M.F. But the strong
acid begins to diffuse away at once and the E.M.F. falls
rapidly.  Even if the cell were not discharged this fall would
occur, and if it were allowed to rest for thirty minutes or
so the discharge would have begun with the dotted line (fig.
13). (b) Final rapid fall.---The pores being clogged by
sulphate the plugs cannot get acid by diffusion, and when
5% is reached the fall in  E.M.F. is disproportionately
large (see fig. 10). If discharge be stopped, there is an
almost instantaneous diffusion inwards and a rapid rise
in E.M.F. (c) The rise in E.M.F. at beginning and
end of the charging is due to acid in the pores being
strengthened, partly by diffusion, partly by formation of
sulphuric acid from sulphate, and partly by electrolytic
carrying of strong acid to the positive plate. The injurious
results at 1.6 volt arise because then the pores contain
water.  The chemical reaction is altered, oxide or hydrate
is formed, which will partially dissolve, to be changed
to sulphate when the sulphuric acid subsequently diffuses
in.  But formed in this way it will not appear mixed with
the active masses in the electrolytic paths, but more or
less alone in the pores.  In this position it will more or
less block the passage and isolate some of the peroxide.
Further, when forming in the narrow passage its disruptive
action will tend to force off the outer layers.  It is evident
that limitation of P.D. to 1.8 volt ought to prevent these
injuries, because it prevents exhaustion of acid in the plugs.

Fig. 15 shows the results obtained by study of successive
periods of rest, the observations being taken between
the limits of 2.4 and 1.8 volts.  Curves A and B show
the state and capacity at the beginning. After a 10
days' rest the capacity was smaller, but repeated cycles

 Fig. 15.

of work brought it back to C and D. A second rest (10 days),
followed by many cycles, then gave E and F. After a third
rest (16 days) and many cycles, G and H were obtained.
After a fourth rest (16 days) the first discharge gave I and
the first charge J. Repeated cycles brought the cells back
to K and L. Curves M and N show first cycle after a fifth
rest (16 days); O and P show the final restoration brought
about by repeated cycles of work.  The numbers given by the
integration of some of these curves are stated in Table III.

TABLE III.



           Capacity and Efficiency under Various
               Conditions of Working.
              Discharge.          Charge.       Efficiency.
  Experiment. Ampere-  Watt     Ampere-  Watt     Quan-    Energy.
               hours. hours.     hours.  hours.    tity.
  --------------------------------------------------------------------
  Normal cycle    102   201.7     104.5   230.7     97.2     87.4
  Restoration
   after 1st rest 100   179       103.8   228.2     96.8     85.8
  Restoration
   after 2nd rest  91   176.7     103.8   228.2     96.8     85.8
  Restoration
   after 3rd rest  82.6 161.3      86.2   190.5     95.8     84.7
  Discharge
   immediately     56.5 110.5      86.2   190.5     65.5     581
   after rest .    56.5 110.5      71.1   158.3     79.6     69.6
  Restoration
   after 8 cycles  80   156.9      83.8   184.6     95.5     85
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------


The table shows that the efficiency in a normal cycle may be as
high as 87.4%; that during a rest of sixteen days the charged


1 This discharge is here compared with the charge that
preceded the rest; in the next line the same discharge
is compared with the charge following the rest.

accumulator is so affected that about 30% of its charge is
not available, and in subsequent cycles it shows a diminished
capacity and efficiency; and that by repeated charges and
discharges the capacity may be partially restored and the
efficiency more completely so.  These changes might be
due to--(a) leakage or short-circuit, (b) some of the
active material having fallen to the bottom of the cell
or (c) some change in the active materials. (a) is
excluded by the fact that the subsequent charge is smaller,
and (b) by the continued increase of capacity during the
cycles that follow the rest.  Hence the third hypothesis
is the one which must be relied upon.  The change in the
active materials has already been given.  The formation of

 FIG. 16.

lead sulphate by local action on the peroxide plate and
by diract action of acid on spongy metal on the lead
plate explains the loss of energy shown in curve M, fig.
15, while the fact that it is probably formed, not in
the path of the regular currents, but on the wall of the
grid (remote from the ordinary action), gives a probable
explanation of the subsequent slow recovery.  The action of
the acid on the lead during rest must not be overlooked.

We have seen that capacity diminishes as the discharge rate
increases; that is, the available output increases as the
current diminishes.  R. E. B. Crompton's diagram illustrating
this fact is given in fig. 16. At the higher rates the
consumption of acid is too rapid, diffusion cannot maintain
its strength in the pores, and the fall comes so much earlier.

The resistance varies with the condition of the cell, as
shown by the curves in fig. 17. It may be unduly increased
by long or narrow lugs, and especially by dirty joints
between the lugs.  It is interesting to note that it
increases at the end of both charge and discharge, and

 Fig. 17.

much more for the first than the second.  Now the composition
of the active materials near the end of charge is almost
exactly the same as at the beginning of discharge, and at
first sight there seems nothing to account for the great
fall in resistance from 0.0115 to 0.004 ohm; that is, to
about one-third the value.  There is, however, one difference
between charging and discharging---namely, that due to the
strong acid near the positive, with a corresponding weaker
acid near the negative electrode.  The curve of conductivity
for sulphuric acid shows that both strong and weak acid have
much higher resistances than the liquid usually employed in
accumulators, and it is therefore reasonable to suppose that
local variations in strength of acid cause the changes in
resistance.  That these are not due to the constitution
of the plugs is shown by the fact that, while the plugs
are almost identical at end of discharge and beginning of
charge, the resistance falls from 0.0055 to 0.0033 ohm.

While a current flows through a cell, heat is produced at
the rate of C2RX0.24 calories (water-gram-degree) per
second.  As a consequence the temperature tends to rise.
But the change of temperature actually observed is much
greater during charge, and much less during discharge, than
the foregoing expression would suggest; and it is evident
that, besdies the heat produced according to Joule's law,
there are other actions which warm the cell during charge and
cool it during discharge.  Duncan and Wiegand loc. cit.),
who first observed the thermal changes, ascribe the chief
influence to the electrochemical addition of H2SO4 to the
liquid during charge and its removal during discharge.  Fig.
18 gives some results obtained by Ayrton, Lamb, &c. This
elevation of temperature (due to electrolytic strengthening
of acid and local action) is a measure of the energy lost
in a cycle, and ought to be minimized as much as possible.

  Fig. 18.

Chemistry.---The chemical theory adopted in the foregoing
pages is very simple.  It declares that sulphate of
lead is formed on both plates during discharge,
the chemical action being reversed in charging.  The
following equations express the experimental results.

Condition before


       + plate           Liquid            - plate
    x. PbO2 + y. H2SO4 +  z. Pb
                     n. H2O


After


       + plate                 Liquid              - plate
    (x-p). PbO2   (y-2p). H2SO4   (z-p). Pb
  {                   }+{                       }+{
       p. PbSO4   (n+2p). H2O        p. PbSO4


 During charge, the substances are restored to their
original condition: the equation is therefore reversed.
An equation of this general nature was published by
Gladstone and Tribe in 1882, when Oley first suggested the
``sulphate', theory, which was based on very numerous
analyses.  Confirmation was given by E. Frankland in 1883,
E.  Reynier 1884, A. P. P. Crova and P. Garbe 1885, C. Heim
and  W. F. Kohlrausch 1889, W. E. Ayrton, &c., with G. H.
Robertson 1890, C. H. J. B. Liebenow 1897, F. Dolezalek
1897, and M. Mugdan 1899.  Yet there has been, as Dolezalek
says, an incomprehensible unwillingness to accept the
theory, though no suggested alternative could offer good
verifiable experimental foundation.  Those who seek a full
discussion will find it in Dolezalek's Theory of the Lead
Accumulator. We shall take it that the sulphate theory is
proved, and apply it to the conditions of charge and discharge.

From the chemical theory it will be obvious that the
acid in the pores of both plates will be stronger
during charge than that outside. During discharge
the reverse will be the case.  Fig. 19 shows a curve

 Fig. 19.

of potential difference during charge, with others showing
the concurrent changes in the percentage of PbO2 and the
density of acid. These increase almost in proportion to
the duration of the current, and indicate the decomposition
of sulphate and liberation of sulphuric acid.  There are
breaks in the P.D. curve at A, B, C, D where the current
was stopped to extract samples for analysis, &c. The
fall in E.M.F. in this short interval is noteworthy;
it arises from the diffusion of stronger acid out of the
pores.  The final rise of pressure is due to increase
in resistance and the effect of stronger acid in the
pores, this last arising partly from reduced sulphate and
partly from the electrolytic convection of SO4 (see also
Dolezalek, Theory, p. 113) . Fig. 20 gives the data for
discharge.  The percentage of PbO2 and the density here
fall almost in proportion to the duration of the current.
The special feature is the rapid fall of voltage at the end.

Several suggestions have been made about this phenomenon.
The writer holds that it is due to the exhaustion of the
acid in the pores.  Plante, and afterwards Gladstone and
Tribe, found a possible cause in the formation of a film
of peroxide on the spongy lead. E. J. Wade has suggested
a sudden readjustment of the spongy mass into a complex
sulphate.  To rebut these hypotheses it is only necessary
to say that the fall can be deferred for a long time by
pressing fresh acid into the pores hydrostatically (see
Liebenow, Zeits. fur Elektrochem., 1897, iv. 61),
or by working at a higher temperature. This increases the
diffusion inwards of strong acid, and like the increase due
to hydrostatic pressure maintains the E.M.F. The other
suggested causes of the fall therefore fail.  Fig. 20 also
shows that when the discharge current was stopped at points
A, B, C, D to extract samples, the voltage immediately rose,
owing to inward diffusion of stronger acid.  The inward
diffusion of fresh acid also accounts for the recuperation
found after a rest which follows either complete discharge or
a partial discharge at a very rapid rate.  If the discharge
be complete the recuperation refers only to the electromotive
force; the pressure falls at once on closed circuit.  If
discharge has been rapid, a rest will enable the cell to resume
work because it brings fresh acid into the active regions.

 Fig. 20.

As to the effect of repose on a charged cell, Gladstone and
Tribe's experiments showed that peroxide of lead lying on
its lead supoort suffers from a local action, which reduces
one molecule of PbO2 to sulphate at the same time that an
atom of the grid below it is also changed to sulphate.  There
is thus not only a loss of the available peroxide, but a
corrosion of the grid or plate.  It is through this action
that the supports gradually give way.  On the negative plate
an action arises between the finely divided lead and the
sulphuric acid, with the result that hydrogen is set free--
      Pb + H2SO4 = PbSO4 + H2.
This involves a diminution of available spongy lead, or loss
of capacity, occasionally with serious consequences.  The
capacity of the lead plate is reduced absolutely, of course,
but its relative value is more seriously affected.  In the
discharge it gets sulphated too much, because the better
positive keeps up the E.M.F. too long.  In the succeeding
charge, the positive is fully charged before the negative, and
the differences between them tend to increase in each cycle.

Kelvin and Helmholtz have shown that the E.M.F. of a voltaic
cell oan be calculated from the energy developed by the chemical
action. For a dyad gram equivalent (= 2 grams of hydrogen,
207 grams of lead, &c.), the equation connecting them is
       E = H/46000 + T dE/dT,
here E is the E.M.F. in volts, H is the heat developed by a
dyad equivalent of the reacting substances, T is the absolute
temperature, and dE/dT is the temperature coefficient of the
E.M.F. If the E.M.F. does not change with temperature,
the second term is zero. The thermal values for the various
substances formed and decomposed are -For PbO2, 62400; for
PbSO4, 216210; for H2SO4, 192920; and for H2O, 68400
calories.  Writing the equation in its simplest form for
strong acid, and ignoring the temperature coefficient term,

      PbO2 + 2 H2SO4 + Pb = 2PbSO4 + 2 H2O
     -62440   - 385840               + 432420  + 136720
leaving a balance of 120860 calories.  Dividing by 46000
gives 2.627 volts.  The experimental value in strong acid,
according to Gladstone and Hibbert, is 2.607 volts, a very
close approximation. For other strengths of acid, the energy
will be less by the quantity of heat evolved by dilution
of the acid, because the chemical action must take the
H2SO4 from the diluted liquid.  The dotted curve in fig.
10 indicates the calculated E.M.F. at various points when
this is taken into account.  The difference between it and
the continuous curve must, if the chemical theory be correct,
depend on the second term in the equation.  The figure shows
that the observed E.M.F. is above the theoretical for
all strengths from 100 down to 5%. Below 5 the position is
reversed.  The question remains, Can the temperature
coefficient be obtained? This is difficult, because the value
is so small, and it is not easy to secure a good cycle of
observations.  Streintz has given the following values:--
     E        1.9223   1.9828  2.0031  2.0084  2.0105  2.078  2.2070
   dE/dT.106 140       228    335     285     255     130    73
Unpublished experiments by the writer give dE/dT. 106 =
350 for anid of density 1.156.  With stronger acid, a true
cycle could not be obtained.  Taking Streintz's value, 335
for 25% acid, the second term of the equation is TdE/dT =
290 X .000335 = 0.0971 volt.  The first term gives 88800
calories = 1.9304 volt.  Adding the second term, 1.9304 +
0.0971 = 2.2075 volts.  The observed value is 2.030 volts
(see fig. 10), a remarkably good agreement.  This calculation
and the general relation shown in fig. 10 render it highly
probable that, if the temperature coefficient were known
for all strengths of acid, the result would be equally
good.  It is worth observing that the reversal of relationship
between the observed and calculated curves, which takes
place at 5% or 6%, suggests that the chemistry must be on
the point of altering as the acid gets weak, a conclusion
which has been already arrived at on purely chemical
grounds.  The thermodynamical relations are thus seen to
confirm very strongly the chemical and physical analyses.1

Accumulators in Central Stations.---As the efficiency of
accumulators is not generally higher than 75%, and machines
must be used to charge them, it is not directly economical
to use cells alone for public supply.  Yet they play an
important and an increasing part in public work, because they
help to maintain a constant voltage on the mains, and can be
used to distribute the load on the running machinery over a
much greater fraction of the day.  Used in parallel with the
dynamo, they quickly yield current when the load increases,
and immediately begin to charge when the load diminishes, thus
largely reducing the fluctuating stress on dynamo and engine
for sudden variations in load.  Their use is advantageous if
they can be charged and discharged at a time when the steam
plant would otherwise be working at an uneconomical load.

 Fig. 21.

Regulation of the potential difference is managed in various
ways.  More cells may be thrown in as the discharge proceeds,
and taken out during charge; but this method often leads to
trouble, as some cells get unduly discharged, and the unity
of the battery is disturbed. Sometimes the number of cells
is kept fixed for supply, but the P.D. they put on the mains
is reduced during charge by employing regulating cells in
opposition.  Both these plans have proved unsatisfactory,
and the battery is now preferably joined across the mains
in parallel with the dynamo.  The cells take the peaks
of the load and thus relieve the dynamo and engine of
sudden changes, as shown in fig. 21. Here the line current
(shown by the erratic curve) varied spasmodically from 0
to 375 amperes, yet the dynamo current varied from 100 to
150 amperes only (see line A). At the same time the line
voltage (535 volts normal) was kept nearly constant.  In
the late evening the cells became exhausted and the dynamo
charged them.  Extra voltage was required at the end of a
``charge,' and was provided by a ``booster.'' Originally a
booster was an auxiliary dynamo worked in series with the
chief machine, and driven in any convenient way.  It has

1 For the discussion of later electrolytic theories as apolied to
accumulators, see Dolezalek, Theory of the Lead Accumulator.

developed into a machine with two or more exciting coils,
and having its armature in series with the cells (see fig.
22). The exciting coils act in opposition; the one carrying
the main current sets up an E.M.F. in the same direction
as that of the cells, and helps the cells to discharge
as the load rises.  When the load is small, the voltage
on the mains is highest and the shunt exciting current
greatest.  The booster E.M.F. now acts with the dynamo
and against the cells, and causes them to take a full
charge.  Even this arrangement did not suffice to keep the
line voltage as constant as seemed desirable in some cases,
as where lighting and traction work were put on the same
plant.  Fig. 23 is a diagram of a complex booster which
gives very good regulation.  The booster B has its armature
in series with the accumulators A, and is kept running
in a given direction at a constant speed by means of a
shunt-wound motor (not shown), so that the E.M.F. induced
in the armature depends on the excitation.  This is made


Fig. 22.
to vary in value and in direction by means of four
independent enciting coils, C1, C2, C3, C4. The last
is not essential, as it merely compensates for the small
voltage drop in the armature.  It is obvious that the
excitation C3 will be proportionate to the difference
in voltage between the battery and the mains, and it is
arranged that battery volts and booster volts shall equal
the volts on the mains.  Under this excitation there is no
tendency for the battery to charge or discharge.  But any
additional excitation leads to strong currents one way or the
other.  Excitation C1 rises with the load on the line,
and gives an E.M.F. helping the battery to discharge most
when the load is greatest.  C2 is dependent on the bus-bar
voltage, and is greatest when the generator load is small: it
opposes C1 and therefore excites the booster to charge the
battery.  The exact generator load at which the booster
shall reverse its E.M.F. from a charging to a discharging
value is adjusted by the resistance R2 in series with C2.
A similar resistance R6 allows the excitation of C3 to be
adjusted.  Very remarkable regulation can be obtained by
reversible boosters of this type.  In traction and lighting
stations it is quite possible to keep the variation of bus-bar
pressure within 2% of the normal value, although the load
may momentarily vary from a few amperes up to 200 or 300.

J. B. Entz has introduced an auxiliary device which enables
him to use a much more simple booster.  The Entz booster
has no series coil and only one shunt coil, the direction
and value of excitation due to this being controlled by
a carbon regulator, it having two arms, the resistance
 of each of which can be varied  by pressure due to the
magnet-  izing action of a solenoid.  The main current
from the generator passes through the solenoid and causes
one or other of the two carbon arms to have the less

 FIG. 23.

resistance.  This change in resistance determines the direction
of the exciter field current, and therefore the direction of the
boost.  A photograph of the switchboard at Greenock where this
booster is in use shows the voltmeter needle as if it had been
held rigid, although the exposure lasted 90 minutes.  On the
same photograph the ammeter needle does not appear, its incessant
and large movements preventing any picture from being formed.

Alkaline Accumulators.--Owing to the high electro-chemical
equivalent of lead, a great saving in weight would be secured
by using almost any other metal.  Unfortunately no other metal
and its compounds can resist the acid.  Hence inventors have
been incited to try alkaline liquids as electrolytes.  Many
attempts have been made to construct accumulators in this way,
though with only moderate success.  The Lalande-Chaperon,
Desmazures, Waddell-Ent2 and Edison are the chief cells. T.
A. Edison's cell has been most developed, and is intended for
traction work.  He made the plates of very thin sheets of
nickel-plated steel, in each of which 24 rectangular holes
were stamped, leaving a mere framework of the metal.  Shallow
rectangular pockets of perforated nickel-steel were fitted
in the holes and then burred over the framework by high
pressures.  The pockets contained the active material.  On the
positive plate this consisted of nickel peroxide mixed with
flake graphite, and on the negative plate of finely divided
iron mixed with graphite.  Both kinds of active material
were prepared in a special way.  The graphite gives greater
conductivity.  The liquid was a 20% solution of caustic
potash.  During discharge the iron was oxidized, and the
nickel reduced to a lower state of oxidation. This change was
reversed during charge.  Fig. 24 shows the general features.

 Fig. 24.--Edison Accumulator.

The chief results obtained by European experts showed
that the E.M.F. was 1.33 volt, with a transient higher
value following charge.  A cell weighing 17.8 lb. had a
resistance of 0.0013 ohm, and an output at 60 amperes of 210
watt-hours, or at 120 amperes of 177 watt-hours.  Another
and improved cell weighiog 12.7 lb.  gave 14.6 watt-hours
per pound of cell at a 20-ampere rate, and 13.5 watt-hours
per pound at a 60 ampere rate.  The cell could be charged
and discharged at almost any rate.  A full charge could be
given in 1 hour, and it would stand a discharge rate of 200
amperes (Journ.  Inst. Elec.  Eng., 1904, pp. 1-36).

Subsequently Edison found some degree of falling-off in
capacity, due to an enlargement of the positive pockets
by pressure of gas.  Most of the faults have been overcome
by altering the form of the pocket and replacing the
graphite by a metallic conductor in the form of flakes.

REFERENCES.---G.  Plante, Recherches sur L'electricite
(Paris, 1879); Gladstone and Tribe, Chemistry of Secondary
Batteries (London, 1884); Reynier, L'Accumulateur voltaique
(Paris, 1888); Heim, Die Akkumulatoren (Berlin, 1889);
Hoppe, Die Akk. fur Elektricitat (Berlin, 1892); Schoop,
Handbuch fur Akk. (Stuttgart, 1898): Sir E. Frankland,
``Chemistry of Storage Batteries,'' Proc.  Roy. Soc., 1883;
Reynier, Jour.  Soc. Franc. de Phys., 1884; Heim, ``U.
d. Einfluss der Sauredichte auf die Kapazitat der Akk.,''
Elek.  Zeits., 1889; Kohlrausch and Heim, ``Ergebnisse von
Versuchen an Akk. fur Stationsbetrieb,'' Elek.  Zeits.,
1889; Darrieus, Bull.  Soc. Intern. des Elect., 1892; F.
Dolezalek, The Theory of the Lead Accumulator (London, 1906);
Sir D. Salomons, Management of accumulators (London, 1906)
E. J. Wade, Secondary Batteries (London, 1901); L. Jumau,
Les Accumulateurs electriques (Paris, 1904). (W. HT.)

ACCURSIUS Ital. ACCORSO), FRANCISCUS (1182-1260), Italian
jurist, was born at Florence about 1182.  A pupil of Azo, he
first practised law in his native city, and was afterwards
appointed professor at Bologna, where he had great success as a
teacher.  He undertook the great work of arranging into one
body the almost innumerable comments and remarks upon the
Code, the Institutes and Digests, the confused dispersion
of which among the works of different writers caused much
obscurity and contradiction.  This compilation, bearing
the title Glossa ordinaria or magistralis, but usually
known as the Great Gloss, though written in barbarous Latin,
has more method than that of any preceding writer on the
subject.  The best edition of it is that of Denis Godefroi
(1549-1621), published at Lyons in 1589, in 6 vols.
folio.  When Accursius was employed in this work, it is
said that, hearing of a similar one proposed and begun by
Odoiced, another lawyer of Bologna, he feigned indisposition,
interrupted his public lectures, and shut himself up,
till with the utmost expedition he had accomplished his
design.  Accursius was greatly extolled by the lawyers of
his own and the immediately succeeding age, and he was even
called the idol of jurisconsults, but those of later times
formed a much lower estimate of his merits.  There can be
no doubt that he disentangled the sense of many laws with
much skill, but it is equally undeniable that his ignorance
of history and antiquities often led him into absurdities,
and was the cause of many defects in his explanations and
commentaries.  He died at Bologna in 1260. His eldest son
Franciscus (1225-1293), who also filled the chair of law
at Bologna, was invited to Oxford by King Edward I., and
in 1275 or 1276 read lectures on law in the university.

ACCUSATION (Lat. accusatio, accusare, to challenge to
a causa, a suit or trial at law), a legal term signifying
the charging of another with wrong-doing, criminal or
otherwise.  An accusation which is made in a court of justice
during legal proceedings is privileged (see PRIVILEGE),
though, should the accused have been maliciously prosecuted,
he will have a right to bring an action for malicious
prosecution.  An accusation made outside a court of justice
would, if the accusation were false, render the accuser
liable to an action for defamation of character, while, if the
accusation be committed to writing, the writer of it is liable
to indictment, whether the accusation be made only to the party
accused or to a third person, A threat or conspiracy to accuse
another of a crime or of misconduct which does not amount to
a crime for the purpose of extortion is in itself indictable.

ACCUSATIVE (Lat. accusativus, sc. casus, a translation
of the Gr. aitiatike ptosis, the case concerned
with cause and effect, from aiti'a, a cause), in
grammar, a case of the noun, denoting primarily the
object of verbal action or the destination of motion.

ACE (derived through the Lat. as, from the Tarentine
form of the Gr. eis) the number one at dice, or the
single point on a die or card; also a point in the score
of racquets, lawn-tennis, tennis and other court games.

ACELDAMA (according to Acts i. 19, ``the field of blood''),
the name given to the field purchased by Judas Iscariot
with the money he received for the betrayal of Jesus
Christ.  A different version is given in Matthew xxvii.
8, where Judas is said to have cast down the money in the
Temple, and the priests who had paid it to have recovered the
pieces, with which they bought ``the potter's field, to bury
strangers in.'' The MS. evidence is greatly in favour of
a form Aceldamach.  This would seem to mean ``the field of
thy blood,'' which is unsuitable.  Since, however, we find
elsewhere one name appearing as both Sirach and Sira (ch
= aleph), Aceldamach may be another form of an original
Aceldama (aleph kamatz mem shvah daleth lamedh tzareh
qoph patach heth), the ``field of blood.'' A. Klostermann,
however, takes the ch to be part of the Aramaic root
demach, ``to sleep,'; the word would then mean ``field
of sleep'' or cemetery (Probleme im Aposteltexte, 1-8,
1883), an explanation which fits in well with the account
in Matthew xxvii.  The traditional site (now Hak el-Dum),
S. of Jerusalem on the N.E. slope of the ``Hill of Evil
Counsel'' (Jebel Deir Abu Tor), was used as a burial place
for Christian pilgrims from the 6th century A.D. till as
late, apparently, as 1697, and especially in the time of the
Crusades.  Near it there is a very ancient charnelhouse, partly
rock-cut, partly of masonry, said to be the work of Crusaders.

ACENAPHTHENE, C12H10, a hydrocarbon isolated from
the fraction of coal-tar boiling at 260 deg. -270 deg.  by M. P.
E. Berthelot, who, in conjunction with Bardy, afterwards
synthesized it from a-ethyl naphthalene (Ann. Chem.
Phys., 1873, Yol. xxix.).  It forms white needles (from
alcohol), melts at 95 deg.  and boils at 278 deg. .  Oxidation
gives naphthalic acid (1.8 naphthalene dicathoxylic acid).

Acenaphthalene, C12 H8, a hydrocarbon crystallizing
in yellow tables and obtained by passing the vapour of
acenaphthene over heated litharge.  Sodium amalgam reduces it
to acenaphthone; chromic acid oxidizes it to naphthalic acid.

ACEPHALI (from a'-, privative, and kefale, head), a
term applied to several sects as having no head or leader;
and in particular to a strict monophysite sect that separated
itself, in the end of the 5th century, from the rule of
the patriarch of Alexandria (Peter Mongus), and remained
``without king or bishop'' till they were reconciled by Mark
I. (799-819).1 The term is also used to denote clerici
vagrantes, i.e. clergy without title or benefice, picking
up a living anyhow (cf. Hinschius i. p. 64). Certain persons
in England during the reign of King Henry I. were called
Acephali because they had no lands by virtue of which they
could acknowledge a superior lord.  The name is also given to
certain legendary races described by ancient naturalists and
geographers as having no heads, their mouths and eyes being
in their breasts, generally identified with Pliny's Blemmyae.

ACEPHALOUS, headless, whether literally or metaphorically,
leaderless.  The word is used literally in biology; and
metaphorically in prosody or grammar for a verse or sentence
with a beginning wanting.  In zoology, the mollusca are
divided into cephalous and acephalous (Acephala), according
as they have or have not an organized part of their anatomy
as the seat of the brain and special senses.  The Acephala,
or Lamellibranchiata (q.v.), are commonly known as bivalve
shell-fish.  In botany the word is used for ovaries not
terminating in a stigma. Acephalocyst is the name given by R.
T. H. Laennec to the hydatid, immature or larval tapeworm.

ACERENZA (anc. Aceruntia), a town of the province of
Potenza, Italy, the seat of an archbishop, 15 1/2 m.  N.E. of the
station of Pietragalla, which is 9 m.  N.W. of Potenza by rail,
2730 ft. above sea-level.  Pop. (1901) 4499.  Its situation is
one of great strength, and it has only one entrance, on the
south.  It was occupied as a colony at latest by the end of
the Republic, and its importance as a fortress was specially
appreciated by the Goths and Lombards in the 6th and 7th
centuries.  It has a fine Norman cathedral, upon the gable of
which is one of the best extant busts of Julian the Apostate.

ACEROSE (from Lat. acus, needle, or acer, sharp),
needle-shaped, a term used in botany (since Linnaeus) as
descriptive of the leaves, e.g., of pines.  From Lat. aeus,
chaff, comes also the distinct meaning of ``mixed with chaff.''

ACERRA, a town and episcopal see of Campania, Italy,
in the province of Caserta, 9 m.  N.E. from Naples by
rail.  Pop. (1901) 16,443.  The town lies on the right
bank of the Agno, which divides the province of Naples from
that of Caserta, 90 ft. above the sea, in a fertile but
somewhat marshy district, which in the middle ages was very
malarious.  The ancient name (Acerrae) was also borne
by a town in Umbria and another in Gallia Transpadana
(the latter now Pizzighettone on the Adda, 13 m. W.N.W. of
Cremona).  It became a city with Latin rights in 332 B.C.
and later a municipium. It was destroyed by Hannibal in 216
B.C., but restored in 210; in 90 B.C. it served as the
Roman headquarters in the Social war, and was successfully
held against the insurgents.  It received a colony under
Augustus, but appears to have suffered much from floods of
the river Clams. Under the Empire we hear no more of it,
and no traces of antiquity, beyond inscriptions, remain.

ACERRA, in Roman antiquity, a small box or pot for holding
incense, as distinct from the turibulum (thurible) or
censer in which incense was burned.  The name was also
given by the Romans to a little altar placed near the
dead, on which incense was offered every day till the
burial.  In ecclesiastical Latin the term acerra is still
applied to the incense boats used in the Roman ritual.

ACETABULUM, the Latin word for a vinegar cup, an ancient
Roman vessel, used as a liquid measure (equal to about
half a gill); it is also a word used technically in
zoology, by analogy for certain cup-shaped parts, e.g.
the suckers of a mollusc, the socket of the thigh-bone,
&c.; and in botany for the receptacle of Fungi.

ACETIC ACID (acidum aceticum), CH3.CO2H, one of the most
important organic acids.  It occurs naturally in the juice of

 1 See Gibbon, ch. xlvii. (vol. v. p. 129 in Pury's ed.).

 many plants, and as the esters of n-hexyl and n-octyl
alcohols in the seeds of Heracleum giganteum, and in the
fruit of Heracleum sphondylium, but is generally obtained,
on the large scale, from the oxidation of spoiled wines, or
from the destructive distillation of wood.  In the former
process it is obtained in the form of a dilute aqueous
solution, in which also the colouring matters of the wine,
salts, &c., are dissolved; and this impure acetic acid is
what we ordinarily term vinegar (q.v.). Acetic acid (in
the form of vinegar) was known to the ancients, who obtained
it by the oxidation of alcoholic liquors. Wood-vinegar was
discovered in the middle ages.  Towards the close of the
18th century, A. L. Lavoisier showed that air was necessary
to the formation of vinegar from alcohol.  In 1830 J. B.
A. Dumas converted acetic acid into trichloracetic acid,
and in 1842 L. H. F. Melsens reconverted this derivative
into the original acetic acid by reduction with sodium
amalgam.  The synthesis of trichloracetic acid from its
elements was accomplished in 1843 by H. Kolbe; this taken
in conjunction with Melsens's observation provided the first
synthesis of acetic acid. Anhydrous acetic acid--glacial
acetic acid--is a leafy crystalline mass melting at 16.7 deg.
C., and possessing an exceedingly pungent smell.  It boils
at 118 deg. , giving a vapour of abnormal specific gravity.
It dissolves in water in all proportions with at first a
contraction and afterwards an increase in volume.  It is
detected by heating with ordinary alcohol and sulphuric acid,
which gives rise to acetic ester or ethyl acetate, recognized
by its fragrant odour; or by heating with arsenious oxide,
which forms the pungent and poisonous cacodyl oxide.  It is
a monobasic acid, forming one normal and two acid potassium
salts, and basic salts with iron, aluminium, lead and copper.
Ferrous and ferric acetates are used as mordants; normal
lead acetate is known in commerce as sugar of lead (q.v.);
basic copper acetates are known as verdigris (q.v.).

Pharmacology and Therapeutics.---Glacial acetic acid is
occasionally used as a caustic for corns.  The dilute acid,
or vinegar, may be used to bathe the skin in fever, acting
as a pleasant refrigerant.  Acetic acid has no valuable
properties for internal administration.  Vinegar, however,
which contains about 5% acetic acid, is frequently taken
as a cure for obesity, but there is no warrant for this
application.  Its continued employment may, indeed, so injure
the mucous membrane of the stomach as to interfere with digestion
and so cause a morbid and dangerous reduction in weight.

The acetates constitute a valuable group of medicinal agents,
the potassium salt being most frequently employed.  After
absorption into the blood, the acetates are oxidized to
carbonates, and therefore are remote alkalies, and are
administered whenever it is desired to increase the alkalinity
of the blood or to reduce the acidity of the urine, without
exerting the disturbing influence of alkanes upon the digestive
tract.  The citrates act in precisely similar fashion, and may be
substituted. They are somewhat more pleasant but more expensive.

ACETO-ACETIC ESTER, C6H10O3 or CH3.CO.CH2.COOC2H5,
a chemical substance discovered in 1863 by A. Geuther, who
showed that the chief product of the action of sodium on ethyl
acetate was a sodium compound of composition C6H9O3Na,
which on treatment with acids gave a colourless, somewhat
oily liquid of composition C6H10O3.  E. Frankland and
B. F. Duppa in 1865 examined the reaction and concluded that
Geuther's sodium salt was a derivative of the ethyl ester
of acetone carboxylic acid and possessed the constitution
CH6CO.CHNa.COOC2H5. This view was not accepted by
Geuther, who looked upon his compound C6H10O3 as being
an acid.  J. Wislicenus also investigated the reaction
very thoroughly and accepted the Frankland-Duppa formula
(Annalen, 1877, 186, p. 163; 1877, 190, p. 257).

The substance is best prepared by drying ethyl acetate over
calcium chloride and treating it with sodium wire, which
is best introduced in one operation; the liquid boils and
is then heated on a water bath for some hours, until the
sodium all dissolves.  After the reaction is completed,
the liquid is acidified with dilute sulphuric acid (1:5)
and then shaken with salt solution, separated from the salt
solution, washed, dried and fractionated.  The portion
boiling betbeen 175 deg.  and 185 deg.  C. is redistilled.  The
yield amounts to about 30% of that required by theory.

A. Ladenburg and J. A. Wanklyn have shown that pure ethyl
acetate free from alcohol will not react with sodium to produce
aceto-acetic ester.  L. Claisen, whose views are now accepted,
studied the reactions of sodium ethylate and showed that
if sodium ethylate be used in place of sodium in the above
reaction the same result is obtained.  He explains the reactions


                                                       /ONa
     CH3.C==O           + NaOC2H5  =  CH3.C-OC2H5,
              \ OC2H5                            \OC2H5


this reaction being followed by


              /ONa            H\
      CH3.C-OC2H5  +   CH.COOC2H5  =  2 C2 H5OH +
              \OC2H5    H/                 CH3.C(ONa):CH.COOC2H5;



and on acidification this last substance gives aceto-acetic
ester. Aceto-acetic ester is a colourless liquid boiling at
181 deg. C.; it is slightly soluble in water, and when distilled
undergoes some decomposition forming dehydracetic acid
C8H8O4. It undoubtedly contains a keto-group, for it
reacts with hydrocyanic acid, hydroxylamine, phenylhydrazine
and ammonia; sodium bisulphite also combines with it to
form a crystalline compound, hence it contains the grouping
CH 3/0.CO-.  J. Wislicenus found that only one hydrogen atom
in the--CH2- group is directly replaceable by sodium, and
that if the sodium be then replaced by an alkyl group, the
second hydrogen atom in the group can be replaced in the same
manner.  These alkyl substitution products are important,
for they lead to the synthesis of many organic compounds,
on account of the fact that they can be hydrolysed in
two different ways, barium hydroxide or dilute sodium
hydroxide solution giving the so-called ketone hydrolysis,
whilst concentrated sodium hydroxide gives the acid


     Ketone hydrolysis:-
   CH3.CO.C(XY).CO2C2H5 -> CH3.CO.CH(XY) +
                                        C2H5OH + CO2;
     Acid hydrolysis:-
   CH3.CO.C(XY).CO2C2H5 -> CH3.CO2H + C2H5OH +
                                             CH(XY).COOH;


(where X and Y = alkyl groups).

Both reactions occur to some extent simultaneously. Acetoacetic
ester is a most important synthetic reagent, having been
used in the production of pyridines (q.v.), quinolines
(q.v.), pyrazolones, furfurane (q.v.), pyrrols (q.v.),
uric acid (q.v.), and many complex acids and ketones.

For a discussion as to the composition, and whether
it is to be regarded as possessing the ``keto', form
CH3.CO.CH2.COOC2H6 or the ``enol'' form CH3.C(OH):
CH.COOC2H5, see ISOMERISM, and also papers by J. Wislicenus
(Ann., 1877, 186, p. 163; 1877, 190, p. 257), A. Michael
(Journ.  Prak.  Chem., 1887, [2] 37, p. 473), L. Knorr
(Ann., 1886, 238, p. 147), W. H. Perkin, senr. (Journ. of
Chem.  Soc., 1892, 61, p. 800) and J. U. Nef (Ann., 1891,
266, p. 70; 1892, 270, pp. 289, 333; 1893, 276, p. 212).

ACETONE, or DIMETHYL KETONE, CH3.CO.CH3, in chemistry,
the simplest representative of the aliphatic ketones.  It
is present in very small quantity in normal urine, in the
blood, and in larger quantities in diabetic patients.
It is found among the products formed in the destructive
distillation of wood, sugar, cellulose, &c., and for this
reason it is always present in crude wood spirit, from which
the greater portion of it may be re-covered by fractional
distillation.  On the large scale it is prepared by the dry
distillation of calcium acetate (CH3CO2)2Ca = CaCO3 +
CH3COCH3.  E. R. Squibb (Journ.  Amer.  Chem.  Soc., 1895,
17, p. 187) manufactures it by passing the vapour of acetic
acid through a rotating iron cylinder containing a mixture
of pumice and precipitated barium carbonate, and kept at a
temperature of from 500 deg.  C. to 600 deg.  C. The mixed vapours
of acetone, acetic acid and water are then led through a
condensing apparatus so that the acetic acid and water are
first condensed, and then the acetone is condensed in a second
vessel.  The barium carbonate used in the process acts as a
contact substance, since the temperature at which the operation
is carried out is always above the decomposition point of
barium acetate. Crude acetone may be purified by converting
it into the crystalline sodium bisulphite compound, which
is separated by filtration and then distilled with sodium


      CH3\ / OH                            CH3\
   2         C           + Na2CO3  =  2        CO + 2 Na2SO3 +
      CH3/ \ SO3Na                      CH3/         CO2 + H2O


It is then dehydrated and redistilled.

Acetone is largely used in the manufacture of cordite
(q.v.) For this purpose the crude distillate is
redistilled over sulphuric acid and then fractionated.

Acetone is a colourless mobile liquid of pleasant smell,
boiling at 56.53 deg. C., and has a specific gravity 0.819
(0 deg. /4 deg. C.). It is readily soluble in water, alcohol,
ether, &c.  In addition to its application in the cordite
industry it is used in the manufacture of chloroform (q.v.)
and sulphonal, and as a solvent.  It forms a hydrazone
with phenyl hydrazine, and an oxime with hydroxylamine.
Reduction by sodium amalgam converts it into isopropyl
alcohol; oxidation by chromic acid gives carbon dioxide
and acetic acid.  With ammonia it reacts to form di- and
triacetoneamines.  It also unites directly with hydrocyanic
acid to form the nitrile of a-oxyisobutyric acid.

By the action of various reagents such as lime, caustic potash,
hydrochloric acid, &c., acetone is converted into condensation
products, mesityl oxide C6H10O, phorone C9H14O, &c., being
formed.  On distillation with sulphuric acid, it is converted
into mesitylene C9H12 (symmetrical trimethyl benzene).
Acetone has also been used in the artificial production of
indigo.  In the presence of iodine and an alkali it gives
iodoform.  Acetone has been employed medicinally in cases of
dyspnoea.  With potassium iodide, glycerin and water,
it forms the preparation spirone, which has been used as
a spray inhalation in paroxysmal sneezing and asthma.

ACETOPHENONE, or PHENYL-METHYL KETONE, C8H8O or
C6H5CO.CH3, in chemistry, the simplest representative of
the class of mixed aliphatic-aromatic ketones.  It can be
prepared by distilling a mixture of dry calcium benzoate and
acetate, Ca(O2CC6H5)2 + (CH3CO2)2Ca = 2CaCO3 + 2
C6H5CO.CH3, or by condensing benzene with acetyl chloride
in the presence of anhydrous aluminium chloride (C. Friedel
and J. M. Crafts), C6H6+CH3COCl == HCl + C6H5COCH3.
It crystallizes in colourless plates melting at 20 deg. C. and
bolling at 202 deg.  C.; it is insoluble in water, but readily
dissolves in the ordinary organic solvents. It is reduced by
nascent hydrogen to the secondary alcohol C6H5.CH.OH.CH3
phenyl-methyl-carbinol, and on oxidation forms benzoic
acid.  On the addition of phenylhydrazine it gives a
phenylhydrazone, and with hydroxylamine furnishes an


        C6H5\
                   C=N.OH
            CH3/


melting at 59 deg. C.  This oxime undergoes a peculiar rearrangement
when it is dissolved in ether and phosphorus pentachloride is
added to the ethereal solution, the excess of ether distilled
off and water added to the residue being converted into the
isomeric substance acetanilide, C6H5NHCOCH3, a behaviour
shown by many ketoximes and known as the Beckmann change (see
Berichte, 1886, 19, p. 988). With sodium ethylate in ethyl
acetate solution it forms the sodium derivative of benzoyl
acetone, from which benzoyl acetone, C6H5.CO.CH2.CO.CH3,
can be obtained by acidification with acetic acid.  When
heated with the halogens, acetophenone is substituted in
the aliphatic portion of the nucleus; thus bromine gives
phenacyl bromide, C6H6CO.CH2Br.  Numerous derivatives of
acetophenone have been prepared, one of the most important
being orthoaminoacetophenone, NH2.C6H4.CO.CH3, which
is obtained by boiling orthoaminophenylpropiolic acid with
water. It is a thick yellowish oil bolling between 242 deg.
C. and 250 deg.  C. It condenses with acetone in the presence
of caustic soda to a quinoline. Acetonyl-aeeto phenone,
C6H5 . CO . CH2 . CH2.  CO . CH3, is produced by
condensing phenacyl bromide with sodium acetoacetate with
subsequent elimination of carbon dioxide, and on dehydration
gives aa-phenyl-methyl-furfurane.  Oxazoles (q.v.) are
produced on condensing phenacyl bromide with acid-amides (M.
Lewy, Berichte, 1887, 20, p. 2578).  K. L. Paal has also
obtained pyrrol derivatives by condensing acetophenone-aceto-
acetic-ester with substances of the type NH2R.

ACETYLENE, klumene or ethine, a gaseous compound of
carbon and hydrogen, represented by the formula C2H2.

Physical properties.

It is a colourless gas, having a density of 0.92.  When prepared
by the action of water upon calcium carbide, it has a very strong
and penetrating odour, but when it is thoroughly purified from
sulphuretted and phosphuretted hydrogen, which are invariably
present with it in minute traces, this extremely pungent odour
disappears, and the pure gas has a not unpleasant ethereal
smell.  It can be condensed into the liquid state by cold
or by pressure, and experiments by G. Ansdell show that if
the gas be subjected to a pressure of 21.53 atmospheres at a
temperature of 0 deg.  C., it is converted into the liquid state,
the pressure needed increasing with the rise of temperature,
and decreasing with the lowering of the temperature, until
at--82 deg.  C. it becomes liquid under ordinary atmospheric
pressure.  The critical point of the gas is 37 C., at which
temperature a pressure of 68 atmospheres is required for
liquefaction.  The properties of liquid and solid acetylene
have been investigated by D. Mcintosh (Jour Chem.  Soc.,
Abs., 1907, i. 458).  A great future was expected from
its use in the liquid state, since a cylinder fitted with
the necessary reducing valves would supply the gas to light
a house for a considerable period, the liquid occupying
about 1/400 the volume of the gas, but in the United States
and on the continent of Europe, where liquefied acetylene
was made on the large scale, several fatal accidents
occurred owing to its explosion under not easily explained
conditions.  As a result of these accidents M. P. E. Berthelot
and L. J. G. Vieille made a series of valuable researches
upon the explosion of acetylene under various conditions.
They found that if liquid acetylene in a steel bottle be
heated at one point by a platinum wire raised to a red heat,
the whole mass decomposes and gives rise to such tremendous
pressures that no cylinder would be able to withstand them.
These pressures varied from 71,000 to 100,000 lb. per square
inch.  They, moreover, tried the effect of shock upon the
liquid, and found that the repeated dropping of the cylinder
from a height of nearly 20 feet upon a large steel anvil gave
no explosion, but that when the cylinder was crushed under
a heavy blow the impact was followed, after a short interval
of time, by an explosion which was manifestly due to the
fracture of the cylinder and the ignition of the escaping
gas, mixed with air, from sparks caused by the breaking of the
metal.  A similar explosion will frequently follow the breaking
in the same way of a cylinder charged with hydrogen at a high
pressure.  Continuing these experiments, they found that in
acetylene gas under ordinary pressures the decomposition
brought about in one portion of the gas, either by heat or the
firing in it of a small detonator, did not spread far beyond
the point at which the decomposition started, while if the
acetylene was compressed to a pressure of more than 30 lb. on
the square inch, the decomposition travelled throughout the
mass and became in reality detonation.  These results showed
clearly that liquefied acetylene was far too dangerous for
general introduction for domestic purposes, since, although
the occasions would be rare in which the requisite temperature
to bring about detonation would be reached, still, if this
point were attained, the results would be of a most disastrous
character.  The fact that several accidents had already
happened accentuated the risk, and in Great Britain the
storage and use of liquefied acetylene are prohibited.

When liquefied acetylene is allowed to escape from the cylinder
in which it is contained into ordinary atmospheric pressure,
some of the liquid assumes the gaseous condition with such
rapidity as to cool the remainder below the temperature
of -90 deg.  C., and convert it into a solid snow-like mass.

Solubility of acetylene.

Acetylene is readily soluble in water, which at normal
temperature and pressure takes up a little more than its
own volume of the gas, and yields a solution giving a
purple-red precipitate with ammoniacal cuprous chloride and
a white precipitate with silver nitrate, these precipitates
consisting of acetylides of the metals.  The solubility of
the gas in various liquids, as given by different observers,


     100 Volumes of                     Volumes of Acetylene.
           Brine         absorb                  5
           Water          ''                   110
         Alcohol          ''                   600
        Paraffin          ''                   150
   Carbon disulphide      ''                   100
       Fusel oil          ''                   100
         Benzene          ''                   400
      Chloroform          ''                   400
     Acetic acid          ''                   600
         Acetone          ''                  2500


It will be seen from this table that where it is desired
to collect and keep acetylene over a liquid, brine, i.e.
water saturated with salt, is the best for the purpose, but
in practice it is found that, unless water is agitated with
acetylene, or the gas bubbled through, the top layer soon gets
saturated, and the gas then dissolves but slowly.  The great
solubility of acetylene in acetone was pointed out by G. Claude
and A. Hess, who showed that acetone will absorb twenty-five
times its own volume of acetylene at a temperature of 15 deg.  C.
under atmospheric pressure, and that, providing the temperature
is kept constant, the liquid acetone will go on absorbing
acetylene at the rate of twenty-five times its own volume for
every atmosphere of pressure to which the gas is subjected.

At first it seemed as if this discovery would do away with
all the troubles connected with the storage of acetylene
under pressure, but it was soon found that there were
serious difficulties still to be overcome.  The chief
trouble was that acetone expands a small percentage of its
own volume while it is absorbing acetylene; therefore it is
impossible to fill a cylinder with acetone and then force
in acetylene, and still more impracticable only partly to
fill the cylinder with acetone, as in that case the space
above the liquid would be filled with acetylene under high
pressure, and would have all the disadvantages of a cylinder
containing compressed acetylene only.  This difficulty
was overcome by first filling the cylinder with porous
briquettes and then soaking them with a fixed percentage of
acetone, so that after allowing for the space taken up by
the bricks the quantity of acetone soaked into the brick
will absorb ten times the normal volume of the cylinder in
acetylene for every atmosphere of pressure to which the gas
is subjected, whilst all danger of explosion is eliminated.

This fact having been fully demonstrated, acetylene dissolved
in this way was exempted from the Explosives Act, and
consequently upon this exemption a large business has grown up
in the preparation and use of dissolved acetylene for lighting
motor omnibuses, motor cars, railway carriages, lighthouses,
buoys, yachts, &c., for which it is particularly adapted.

Poisonous properties.

Acetylene was at one time supposed to be a highly poisonous
gas, the researches of A. Bistrow and O. Liebreich having
apoarently shown that it acts upon the blood in the same way
as carbon monoxide to form a stable compound.  Very extensive
experiments, however, made by Drs N. Grehant, A. L. Brociner, L.
Crismer, and others, all conclusively show that acetylene is
much less toxic than carbon monoxide, and indeed than coal gas.

Chemical properties.

When acetylene was first introduced on a Commercial scale
grave fears were entertained as to its safety, it being
represented that it had the power of combining with certain
metals, more especially copper and silver, to form acetylides
of a highly explosive character, and-that even with coal
gas, which contains less than 1%, such copper compounds had
been known to be formed in cases where the gas-distributing
mains were composed of copper, and that accidents had
happened from this cause.  It was therefore predicted that
the introduction of acetylene on a large scale would be
followed by numerous accidents unless copper and its alloys
were rigidly excluded from contact with the gas. These fears
have, however, fortunately proved to be unfounded, and ordinary
gas fittings can be used with perfect safety with this gas.

Acetylene has the property of inflaming spontaneously when
brought in contact with chlorine.  If a few pieces of carbide
be dropped into saturated chlorine water the bubbles of
gas take fire as they reach the surface, and if a jet of
acetylene be passed up into a bottle of chlorine it takes
fire and burns with a heavy red flame, depositing its carbon
in the form of soot.  If chlorine be bubbled up into a
jar of acetylene standing over water, a violent explosion,
attended with a flash of intense light and the deposition of
carbon, at once takes place.  When the gas is kept in a small
glass holder exposed to direct sunlight, the surface of the
glass soon becomes dimmed, and W. A. Bone has shown that
when exposed for some time to the sun's rays it undergoes
certain polymerization changes which lead to the deposition
of a film of heavy hydrocarbons on the surface of the
tube.  It has also been observed by L. Cailletet and later
by P. Villard that when allowed to stand in the presence
of water at a low temperature a solid hydrate is formed.

The polymerization of acetylene.

Acetylene is readily decomposed by heat, polymerizing under
its influence to form an enormous number of organic compounds;
indeed the gas, which can itself be directly prepared from its
constituents, carbon and hydrogen, under the influence of the
electric arc, can be made the starting point for the construction
of an enormous number of different organic compounds of a complex
character.  In contact with nascent hydrogen it bunds up
ethylene; ethylene acted upon by sulphuric acid yields ethyl
sulphuric acid; this can again be decomposed in the presence
of water to yield alcohol, and it has also been proposed to
manufacture sugar from this body. Picric acid can also be
obtained from it by first treating acetylene with sulphuric
acid, converting the product into phenol by solution in
potash and then treating the phenol with fuming nitric acid.

Endothermic nature of acetylene.

Acetylene is one of those bodies the formation of which is
attended with the disappearance of heat, and it is for this
reason termed an ``endothermic'' compound, in contradistinction
to those bodies which evolve heat in their formation, and
which are called ``exothermic.'' Such endothermic bodies
are nearly always found to show considerable violence in
their decomposition, as the heat of formation stored up
within them is then liberated as sensible heat, and it is
undoubtedly this property of acetylene gas which leads to its
easy detonation by either heat or a shock from an explosion
of fulminating mercury when in contact with it under
pressure.  The observation that acetylene can be resolved
into its constituents by detonation is due to Berthelot,
who started an explosive wave in it by firing a charge of
0.1 gram of mercury fulminate. It has since been shown,
however, that unless the gas is at a pressure of more than
two atmospheres this wave soon dies out, and the decomposition
is only propagated a few inches from the detonator.  Heated
in contact with air to a temperature of 480 deg.  C., acetylene
ignites and burns with a flame, the appearance of which
varies with the way in which it is brought in contact with the
air.  With the gas in excess a heavy lurid flame emitting
dense volumes of smoke results, whilst if it be driven out
in a sufficiently thin sheet, it burns with a flame of
intense brilliancy and ulmost perfect whiteness, by the
light of which colours can be judged as well as they can by
daylight.  Having its ignition point below that of ordinary
gas, it can be ignited by any red-hot carbonaceous matter,
such as the brightly glowing end of a cigar.  For its
complete combustion a volume of acetylene needs approximately
twelve volumes of air, forming as products of combustion
carbon dioxide and water vapour.  When, however, the air is
present in much smaller ratio the combustion is incomplete,
and carbon, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, hydrogen and
water vapour are produced.  This is well shown by taking a
cylinder one-half full of acetylene and one-half of air; on
applying a light to the mixture a lurid flame runs down the
cylinder and a cloud of soot is thrown up, the cylinder also
being thickly coated with it, and often containing a ball of
carbon.  If now, after a few moments' interval to allow
some air to diffuse into the cylinder, a taper again be
applied, an explosion takes place, due to a mixture of
carbon monoxide and air.  It is probable that when a flame
is smoking badly, distinct traces of carbon monoxide are
being produced, but when an acetylene flame burns properly
the products are as harmless as those of coal gas, and,
light for light, less in amount.  Mixed with air, like
every other combustible gas, acetylene forms an explosive
mixture.  F. Clowes has shown that it has a wider range of
explosive proportions when mixed with air than any of the
other combustible gases, the limiting percentages being as


             Acetylene . . . . . . .  3 to 82
             Hydrogen  . . . . . . .  5 to 72
             Carbon monoxide . . . . 13 to 75
             Ethylene  . . . . . . .  4 to 22
             Methane . . . . . . . .  5 to 13


Methods of production.

The methods which can be and have been employed from time to
time for the formation of acetylene in small quantities are
exceedingly numerous.  Before the commercial production of
calcium carbide made it one of the most easily obtainable
gases, the processes which were most largely adopted for its
preparation in laboratories were:-first, the decomposition
of ethylene bromide by dropping it slowly into a boiling
solution of alcoholic potash, and purifying the evolved
gas from the volatile bromethylene by washing it through
a second flask containing a boiling solution of alcoholic
potash, or by passing it over moderately heated soda lime;
and, second, the more ordinarily adopted process of passing
the products of incomplete combustion from a Bunsen burner,
the flame of which had struck back, through an ammoniacal
solution of cuprous chloride, when the red copper acetylide
was produced. This on being washed and decomposed with
hydrochloric acid yielded a stream of acetylene gas.  This
second method of production has the great drawback that,
unless proper precautions are taken to purify the gas obtained
from the copper acetylide, it is always contaminated with
certain chlorine derivatives of acetylene.  Edmund Davy
first made acetylene in 1836 from a compound produced during
the manufacture of potassium from potassium tartrate and
charcoal, which under certain conditions yielded a black
compound decomposed by water with considerable violence and
the evolution of acetylene.  This compound was afterwards fully
investigated by J. J. Berzelius, who showed it to be potassium
carbide.  He also made the corresponding sodium compound
and showed that it evolved the same gas, whilst in 1862 F.
Wohler first made calcium carbide, and found that water
decomposed it into lime and acetylene.  It was not, however,
until 1892 that the almost simultaneous discovery was made
by T. L. Willson in America and H. Moissan in France that if
lime and carbon be fused together at the temperature of the
electric furnace, the lime is reduced to calcium, which unites
with the excess of carbon present to form calcium carbide.

Manufacture of calcium carbide.

The cheap production of this material and the easy liberation
by its aid of acetylene at once gave the gas a position of
commercial importance.  In the manufacture of calcium carbide
in the electric furnace, lime and anthracite of the highest
possible degree of purity are employed.  A  good working mixture
of these materials may be taken  as being 100 parts by weight
of lime with 68 parts by weight of carbonaceous material.
About 1.8 lb. of this is used up for each pound of carbide
produced.  The two principal processes utilized in making
calcium carbide by electrical power are the ingot process and
the tapping process.  In the former, the anthracite and lime
are ground and carefully mixed in the right proportions to
suit the chemical actions involved.  The arc is struck in a
crucible into which the mixture is allowed to flow, partially
filling it.  An ingot gradually builds up from the bottom
of the crucible, the carbon electrode being raised from time
to time automatically or by hand to suit the diminution of
resistance due to the shortening of the arc by the rising
ingot.  The crucible is of metal and considerably larger
than the ingot, the latter being surrounded by a mass of
unreduced material which protects the crucible from the intense
heat.  When the ingot has been made and the crucible is
full, the latter is withdrawn and another substituted.  The
process is not continuous, but a change of crucibles only
takes two or three minutes under the best conditions, and
only occurs every ten or fifteen hours.  The essence of this
process is that the coke and lime are only heated to the
point of combination, and are not ``boiled'' after being
formed.  It is found that the ingot of calcium carbide formed
in the furnace, although itself consisting of pure crystalline
calcium carbide, is nearly always surrounded by a crust
which contains a certain proportion of imperfectly converted
constituents, and therefore gives a lower yield of acetylene
than the carbide itself.  In breaking up and sending out
the carbide for commercial work, packed in air-tight drums,
the crust is removed by a sand blast.  A statement of the
amount made per kilowatt hour may be misleading, since a
certain amount of loss is of necessity entailed during this
process.  For instance, in practical working it has been
found that a furnace return of 0.504 lb. per kilowatt hour
is brought down to 0.406 lb. per kilowatt hour when the
material has been broken up, sorted and packed in air-tight
drums.  In the tapping process a fixed crucible is used,
lined with carbon, the electrode is nearly as big as the
crucible and a much higher current density is used. The
carbide is heated to complete liquefaction and tapped at short
intervals.  There is no unreduced material, and the process
is considerably simplified, while less expensive plant is
required. The run carbide, however, is never so rich as
the ingot carbide, since an excess of lime is nearly always
used in the mixture to act as a flux, and this remaining
in the carbide lowers its gas-yielding power.  Many
attempts have been made to produce the substance without
electricity, but have met with no commercial success.

Properties of calcium carbide.

Calcium carbide, as formed in the electric furnace, is a
beautiful crystalline semi-metallic solid, having a density
of 2.22, and showing a fracture which is often shot with
iridescent colours.  It can be kept unaltered in dry air,
but the smallest trace of moisture in the atmosphere leads
to the evolution of minute quantities of acetylene and gives
it a distinctive odour.  It is infusible at temperatures up
to 2000 deg.  C., but can he fused in the electric arc.  When
heated to a temperature of 245 deg.  C. in a stream of chlorine
gas it becomes incandescent, forming calcium chloride and
liberating carbon, and it can also be made to burn in oxygen
at a dull red heat, leaving behind a residue of calcium
carbonate.  Under the same conditions it becomes incandescent
in the vapour of sulphur, yielding calcium sulphide and
carbon disulphide; the vapour of phosphorus will also unite
with it at a red heat.  Acted upon by water it is at once
decomposed, yielding acetylene and calcium hydrate.  Pure
crystalline calcium carbide yields 5.8 cubic feet of acetylene
per pound at ordinary temperatures, but the carbide as sold
commercially, being a mixture of the pure crystalline material
with the crust which in the electric furnace surrounds the
ingot, yields at the best 5 cubic feet of gas per pound under
proper conditions of generation.  The volume of gas obtained;
however, depends very largely upon the form of apparatus
used, and while some will give the full volume, other
apparatus will only yield, with the same carbide, 3 3/4 feet.

Impurities.

The purity of the carbide entirely depends on the purity
of the material used in its manufacture, and before this
fact had been fully grasped by manufacturers, and only the
purest material obtainable employed, it contained notable
quantities of compounds which during its decomposition by
water yielded a somewhat high portion of impurities in the
acetylene generated from it.  Although at the present time
a marvellous improvement has taken place all round in the
quality of the carbide produced, the acetylene nearly always
contains minute traces of hydrogen, ammonia, sulphuretted
hydrogen, phosphuretted hydrogen, silicon hydride, nitrogen and
oxygen, and sometimes minute traces of carbon monoxide and
dioxide.  The formation of hydrogen is caused by small
traces of metallic calcium occasionally found free in the
carbide, and cases have been known where this was present in
such quantities that the evolved gas contained nearly 20% of
hydrogen.  This takes place when in the manufacture of the
carbide the material is kept too long in contact with the
arc, since this overheating causes the dissociation of
some of the calcium carbide and the solution of metallic
calcium in the remainder.  The presence of free hydrogen is
nearly always accompanied by silicon hydride formed by the
combination of the nascent hydrogen with the silicon in the
carbide.  The ammonia found in the acetylene is probably partly
due to the presence of magnesium nitride in the carbide.

On decomposition by water, ammonia is produced by the action
of steam or of nascent hydrogen on the nitride, the quantity
formed depending very largely upon the temperature at which
the carbide is decomposed.  The formation of nitrides and
cyanamides by actions of this kind and their easy conversion
into ammonia is a useful method for fixing the nitrogen
of the atmosphere and rendering it available for manurial
purposes. Sulphuretted hydrogen, which is invariably present
in commercial acetylene, is formed by the decomposition of
aluminium sulphide.  A. Mourlot has shown that aluminium
sulphide, zinc sulphide and cadmium sulphide are the only
sulphur compounds which can resist the heat of the electric
furnace without decomposition or volatilization, and of
these aluminium sulphide is the only one which is decomposed
by water with the evolution of sulphuretted hydrogen.
In the early samples of carbide this compound used to be
present in considerable quantity, but now rarely more than
1/10 % is to be found.  Phosphuretted hydrogen, one of the
most important impurities, which has been blamed for the
haze formed by the combustion of acetylene under certain
conditions, is produced by the action of water upon traces
of calcium phosphide found in carbide.  Although at first it
was no uncommon thing to find  1/2% of phosphuretted hydrogen
present in the acetylene, this has now been so reduced
by the use of pure materials that the quantity is rarely
above 0.15%, and it is often not one-fifth of that amount.

Generation of acetylene from carbide.

In the generation of acetylene from calcium carbide and water,
all that has to be done is to bring these two compounds into
contact, when they mutually react upon each other with the
formation of lime and acetylene, while, if there be sufficient
water present, the lime combines with it to form calcium hydrate.


      Calcium carbide.    Water.       Acetylene.     Lime.
           CaC2      + H2O =     C2H2  +   CaO
                 Lime.    Water.       Calcium hydrate.
                  CaO   + H2O =       Ca(HO)2



The decomposition of the carbide by water may be brought
about either by bringing the water slowly into contact with
an excess of carbide, or by dropping the carbide into an
excess of water, and these two main operations again may
be varied by innumerable ingenious devices by which the
rapidity of the contact may be modified or even eventually
stopped.  The result is that although the forms of apparatus
utilized for this purpose are all based on the one fundamental
principle of bringing about the contact of the carbide with
the water which is to enter into double decomposition with
it, they have been multiplied in number to a very large
extent by the methods employed in order to ensure control in
working, and to get away from the dangers and inconveniences
which are inseparable from a too rapid generation.

Generators.

In attempting to classify acetylene generators some authorities
have divided them into as many as six different classes,
but this is hardly necessary, as they may be divided into
two main classes---first, those in which water is brought in
contact with the carbide, the carbide being in excess during
the first portion of the operation; and, second, those in
which the carbide is thrown into water, the amount of water
present being always in excess.  The first class may again
be subdivided into generators in which the water rises in
contact with the carbide, in which it drips upon the carbide,
and in which a vessel full of carbide is lowered into water
and again with-drawn as generation becomes excessive.  Some
of these generators are constructed to make the gas only
as fast as it is consumed at the burner, with the object
of saving the expense and room which would be involved by a
storage-holder.  Generators with devices for regulating and
stopping at will the action going on are generally termed
``automatic.'' Another set merely aims at developing the gas
from the carbide and putting it into a storageholder with as
little loss as possible, and these are termed ``non-automatic.''
The points to be attained in a good generator are:--

 1. Low temperature of generation.
 2. Complete decomposition of the carbide.
 3. Maximum evolution of the gas.
 4. Low pressure in every part of the apparatus.
 5. Ease in charging and removal of residues.
 6. Removal of all air from the apparatus before generation of the gas.
When carbide is acted upon by water considerable heat is
evolved; indeed, the action develops about one-twentieth of
the heat evolved by the combustion of carbon.  As, however,
the temperature developed is a function of the time needed
to complete the action, the degree of heat attained varies
with every form of generator, and while the water in one form
may never reach the boiling-point, the carbide in another
may become red-hot and give a temperature of over 800 deg.  C.
Heating in a generator is not only a source of danger, but
also lessens the yield of gas and deteriorates its quality.
The best forms of generator are either those in which water
rises slowly in contact with the carbide, or the second main
division in which the carbide falls into excess of water.

Purification

It is clear that acetylene, if it is to be used on a large
scale as a domestic illuminant, must undergo such processes
of purification as will render it harmless and innocuous
to health and property, and the sooner it is recognized as
absolutely essential to purify acetylene before consuming it
the sooner will the gas acquire the popularity it deserves.
The only one of the impurities which offers any difficulty
in removal is the phosphuretted hydrogen.  There are three
substances which can be relied on more or less to remove
this compound, and the gas to be purified may be passed
either through acid copper salts, through bleaching powder
or through chromic acid.  In experiments with those various
bodies it is found that they are all of them effective in
also ridding the acetylene of the ammonia and sulphuretted
hydrogen, provided only that the surface area presented to
the gas is sufficiently large.  The method of washing the gas
with acid solutions of copper has been patented by A. Frank
of Charlottenburg, who finds that a concentrated solution
of cuprous chloride in an acid, the liquid being made into
a paste with kieselguhr, is the most effective. Where the
production of acetylene is going on on a small scale this
method of purification is undoubtedly the most convenient
one, as the acid present absorbs the ammonia, and the copper
salt converts the phosphuretted and sulphuretted hydrogen
into phosphates and sulphides.  The vessel, however, which
contains this mixture has to be of earthenware, porcelain
or enamelled iron on account of the free acid present; the
gas must be washed after purification to remove traces of
hydrochloric acid, and care must be taken to prevent the
complete neutralization of the acid by the ammonia present
in the gas. The second process is one patented by Fritz
Ullmann of Geneva, who utilizes chromic acid to oxidize
the phosphuretted and sulphuretted hydrogen and absorb the
ammonia, and this method of purification has proved the most
successful in practice, the chromic acid being absorbed by
kieselguhr and the material sold under the name of ``Heratol.''

The third process owes its inception to G. Lunge, who
recommends the use of bleaching powder.  Dr P. Wolff has found
that when this is used on the large scale there is a risk
of the ammonia present in the acetylene forming traces of
chloride of nitrogen in the purifying-boxes, and as this is
a compound which detonates with considerable local force,
it occasionally gives rise to explosions in the purifying
apparatus.  If, however, the gas be first passed through
a scrubber so as to wash out the ammonia this danger is
avoided.  Dr Wolff employs purifiers in which the gas is
washed with water containing calcium chloride, and then passed
through bleaching-powder solution or other oxidizing material.

When acetylene is burnt from a 000 union jet burner, at all
ordinary pressures a smoky flame is obtained, but on the
pressure being increased to 4 inches a magnificent flame
results, free from smoke, and developing an illuminating
value of 240 candles per 5 cubic feet of gas consumed.
Slightly higher values have been obtained, but 240 may
be taken as the average value under these conditions.

Burners.

When acetylene was first introduced as a commercial illuminant
in England, very small union jet nipples were utilized for
its consumption, but after burning for a short time these
nipples began to carbonize, the flame being distorted, and
then smoking occurred with the formation of a heavy deposit of
soot.  While these troubles were being experienced in England,
attempts had been made in America to use acetylene diluted
with a certain proportion of air which permitted it to be
burnt in ordinary flat flame nipples; but the danger of such
admixture being recognized, nipples of the same class as
those used in England were employed, and the same troubles
ensued.  In France, single jets made of glass were first
employed, and then P. Resener, H. Luchaire, G. Ragot and
others made burners in which two jets of acetylene, coming
from two tubes placed some little distance apart, impinged
and splayed each other out into a butterfly flame.  Soon
afterwards, J. S. Billwiller introduced the idea of sucking
air into the flame at or just below the burner tip, and at
this juncture the Naphey or Dolan burner was introduced in
America, the principle employed being to use two small and
widely separated jets instead of the two openings of the
union jet burner, and to make each a minute bunsen, the
acetylene dragging in from the base of the nipple enough air
to surround and protect it while burning from contact with the
steatite.  This class of burner forms a basis on which all
the later constructions of burner have been founded, but had
the drawback that if the flame was turned low, insufficient
air to prevent carbonization of the burner tips was drawn
in, owing to the reduced flow of gas.  This fault has
now been reduced by a cage of steatite round the burner
tip, which draws in sufficient air to prevent deposition.

Oxy-acetylene blowpipe.  When acetylene was first introduced
on a commercial scale attempts were made to utilize its
great heat of combustion by using it in conjunction with
oxygen in the oxyhydrogen blowpipe.  It was found, however,
that when  using acetylene under low pressures, the burner
tip became so heated as to cause the decomposition of some
of the gas before combustion, the jet being choked up by
the carbon which deposited in a very dense form; and as the
use of acetylene under pressures greater than one hundred
inches of water was prohibited, no advance was made in this
direction. The introduction of acetylene dissolved under
pressure in acetone contained in cylinders filled with
porous material drew attention again to this use of the
gas, and by using a special construction of blowpipe an
oxy-acetylene flame is produced, which is far hotter than the
oxy-hydrogen flame, and at the same time is so reducing in
its character that it can be used for the direct autogenous
welding of steel and many minor metallurgical processes.

REFERENCES.---F.  H. Leeds and W. A. Butterfield, Calcium
Carbide and Acetylene (1903); F. Dommer, L'Acetylene et
ses applications (1896); V. B. Lewes, Acetylene (1900);
F. Liebetanz, Calcium-carbid und Acetylen (1899); G.
Pelissier, L'Eclairage a l'acetylene (1897); C. de
Perrodil, Le carbure de calcium et l'acetylene (1897).
For a complete list of the various papers and memoirs on
Acetylene, see A. Ludwig's Fuhrer durch die gesammte
Calcium carbid-und-Acetylen-Literatur, Berlin. (V. B. L.)

ACHAEA, a district on the northern coast of the Peloponnese,
stretching from the mountain ranges of Erymanthus and
Cyllene on the S. to a narrow strip of fertile land on the
N., bordering the Corinthian Gulf, into which the mountain
Panachaicus projects.  Achaea is bounded on the W. by the
territory of Elis, on the E. by that of Sicyon, which,
however, was sometimes included in it.  The origin of the
name has given rise to much speculation; the current theory
is that the Achaeans (q.v.) were driven back into this
region by the Dorian invaders of the Peloponnese.  Another
Achaea, in the south of Thessaly, called sometimes Achaea
Phthiotis, has been supposed to be the cradle of the
race.  In Roman times the name of the province of Achaea was
given to the whole of Greece, except Thessaly, Epirus, and
Acarnania.  Herodotus (i. 145) mentions the twelve cities Of
Achaea; three met as a religious confederacy in the temple
of Poseidon Heliconius at Helice; for their later history
see ACHAEAN LEAGUE. During the middle ages, after the
Latin conquest of the Eastern Empire, Achaea was a Latin
principality, the first prince being William de Champlitte (d.
1209). It survived, with various dismemberments, until 1430,
when the last prince, Centurione Zaccaria, ceded the remnant
of it to his son-in-law, Theodorus II., despot of Mistra.
In 1460 it was conquered, with the rest of the Morea, by the
Turks.  In modern times the coast of Achaea is mainly given
up to the currant industry; the currants are shipped from
Patras, the second town of Greece, and from Aegion (Vostitza).

ACHAEAN LEAGUE, a confederation of the ancient towns of
Achaea.  Standing isolated on their narrow strips of plain,
these towns were always exposed to the raids of pirates
issuing from the recesses of the north coast of the Corinthian
Gulf.  It was no doubt as a protection against such dangers
that the earliest league of twelve Achaean cities arose,
though we are nowhere explicitly informed of its functions
other than the common worship of Zeus Amarius at Aegium and
an occasional arbitration between Greek belligerents.  Its
importance grew in the 4th century, when we find it fighting
in the Theban wars (368-362 B.C.), against Philip (338) and
Antipater (330).  About 288 Antigonus Gonatas dissolved the
league, which had furnished a useful base for pretenders
against Cassander's regency; but by 280 four towns combined
again, and before long the ten surviving cities of Achaea
had renewed their federation. Antigonus' preoccupation
during the Celtic invasions, Sparta's prostration after
the Chremonidean campaigns, the wealth amassed by Achaean
adventurers abroad and the subsidies of Egypt, the standing
foe of Macedonia, all enhanced the league's importance.
Most of all did it profit by the statesmanship of Aratus
(q.v.), who initiated its expansive policy, until in
228 it comprised Arcadia, Argolis, Corinth and Aegina.

Aratus probably also organized the new federal constitution,
the character of which, owing to the scanty and somewhat
perplexing nature of our evidence, we can only approximately
determine.  The league embraced an indefinite number of
city-states which maintained their internal independence
practically undiminished, and through their several
magistrates, assemblies and law-courts exercised all
traditional powers of self-government.  Only in matters of
foreign politics and war was their competence restricted.

The central government, like that of the constituent
cities, was of a democratic cast.  The chief legislative
powers resided in a popular assembly in which every member
of the league over thirty years of age could speak and
vote.  This body met for three days in spring and autumn at
Aegium to discuss the league's policy and elect the federal
magistrates.  Whatever the number of its attendant burgesses,
each city counted but one on a division.  Extraordinary
assemblies could be convoked at any time or place on special
emergencies.  A council of 120 unpaid delegates, selected from
the local councils, served partly as a committee for preparing
the assembly's programme, partly as an administrative board
which received embassies, arbitrated between contending cities
and exercised penal jurisdiction over offenders against the
constitution.  But perhaps some of these duties concerned
the dicastae and gerousia, whose functions are nowhere
described.  The chief magistracy was the strategia (tenable
every second year), which combined with an unrestricted command
in the field a large measure of civil authority. Besides
being authorized to veto motions, the strategus (general) had
practically the sole power of introducing measures before the
assembly.  The ten elective demiurgi, who presided over this
body, formed a kind of cabinet, and pethaps acted as departmental
chiefs.  We also hear of an under-strategus, a secretary, a
cavalry commander and an admiral.  All these higher officers
were unpaid.  Philopoemen (q.v.) transferred the seat of
assembly from town to town by rotation, and placed dependent
communities on an equal footing with their former suzerains.

The league prescribed uniform laws, standards and coinage; it summoned
contingents, imposed taxes and fined or coerced refractory members.

The first federal wars were directed against Macedonia; in
266-263 the league fought in the Chremonidean league, in
243-241 against Antigonus Gonatas and Aetolia, between 239
and 229 with Aetolia against Demetrius.  A greater danger
arose (227-223) from the attacks of Cleomenes III. (q.v.).
Owing to Aratus's irresolute generalship, the indolence of
the rich burghers and the inadequate provision for levying
troops and paying mercenaries, the league lost several battles
and much of its territory; but rather than compromise with
the Spartan Gracchus the assembly negotiated with Antigonus
Doson, who recovered the lost districts but retained Corinth
for himself (223-221). Similarly the Achaeans could not
check the incursions of Aetolian adventurers in 220-218,
and when Philip V. came to the rescue he made them tributary
and annexed much of the Peloponnese. Under Philopoemen the
league with a reorganized army routed the Aetolians (210)
and Spartans (207, 201).  After their benevolent neutrality
during the Macedonian war the Roman general, T. Quinctius
Flamininus, restored all their lost possessions and sanctioned
the incorporation of Sparta and Messene (191), thus bringing
the entire Peloponnese under Achaean control.  The league
even sent troops to Pergamum against Antiochus (190).
The annexation of Aetolia and Zacynthus was forbidden by
Rome.  Moreover, Sparta and Messene always remained unwilling
members.  After Philopoemen's death the aristocrats initiated a
strongly philo-Roman policy, declared war against King Perseus
and denounced all sympathizers with Macedonia. This agitation
induced the Romans to deport 1000 prominent Achaeans, and,
failing proof of treason against Rome, to detain them seventeen
years.  These hostages, when restored in 150, swelled the
ranks of the proletariate opposition, whose leaders, to
cover their maladministration at home, precipitated a war
by attacking Sparta in defiance of Rome.  The federal troops
were routed in central Greece by Q. Caecilius Metellus
Masedonicus, and again near Corinth by L. Mummius Achaicus
(146). The Romans now dissolved the league (in effect, if not
in name), and took measures to isolate the communities (see
POLYBIUS). Augustus instituted an Achaean synod comprising
the dependent cities of Peloponnese and central Greece; this
body sat at Argos and acted as guardian of Hellenic sentiment.

The chief defect of the league lay in its lack of proper
provision for securing efficient armies and regular
payment of imposts, and for dealing with disaffected
members.  Moreover, owing to difficulties of travel, the
assembly and magistracies were practically monopolized
by the rich, who shaped the federal policy in their own
interest.  But their rule was mostly judicious, and when at
last they lost control the ensuing mob-rule soon ruined the
country.  On the other hand, it is the glory of the Achaean
league to have combined city autonomy with an organized
central administration, and in this way to have postponed
the entire destruction of Greek liberty for over a century.

CHIEF SOURCES.--Polybius (esp. bks. ii., iv., v., xxiii.,
xxviii.),who is followed by Livy (bks. xxxii.-xxxv.,
xxxviii., &c.); Pausanias vii. 9-24; Strabo viii. 384; F.
Freeman, Federal Government, i. (ed. 1893, London), chs.
v.-ix.; M. Dubois, Les lignes Etolienne et Acheenne
(Paris, 1885); A. Holm, Greek History, iv.; G. Hertzberg,
Geschichte Griechenlands unter den Romern, i. (Leipzig,
1866); L. Warren, Greek Federal Coinage (London, 1863); E.
Hicks, Greek Historical Inscriptions (Oxford, 1892),
169, 187, 198, 201; W.. Dittenberger, Sylloge Inscriptionunn
Graecarum (Leipzig, 1898--1901), 236, 282, 316; H. Francotte
in Musee Belge (1906), pp. 4-20.  See also art. ROME,
History, ii. ``The Republic,'' sect.  B(b). (M. O. B. C.)

ACHAEANS ('Achaioi, Lat. Achivi), one of the four
chief divisions of the ancient greek peoples, descended,
according to legend, from Achaeus, son of Xuthus, son of
Hellen.  This Hesiodic genealogy connects the Achaeans closely
with the Ionians, but historically they approach nearer to
the Aeolians. Some even hold that Aeolus is only a form of
Achaeus.  In the Homeric poems (1000 B.C.) the Achaeans
are the master race in Greece; they are represented both in
Homer and in all later traditions as having come into Greece
about three generations before the Trojan war (1184 B.C.),
i.e. about 1300 B.C. They found the land occupied by a
people known by the ancients as Pelasgians, who continued
down to classical times the main element in the population
even in the states under Achaean and later under Dorian rule.
In some cases it formed a serf class, e.g. the Penestae in
Thessaly, the Helots in Laconia and the Gymnesii at Argos,
whilst it practically composed the whole population of Arcadia
and Attica, which never came under either Achaean or Dorian
rule.  This people had dwelt in the Aegean from the Stone
Age, and, though still in the Bronze Age at the Achaean
conquest, had made great advances in the useful and ornamental
arts.  They were of short stature, with dark hair and eyes,
and generally dolichocephalic.  Their chief centres were
at Cnossus (Crete), in Argolis, Laconia and Attica, in each
being ruled by ancient lines of kings.  In Argolis Proetus
built Tiryns, but later, under Perseus, Mycenae took the
lead until the Achaean conquest.  All the ancient dynasties
traced their descent from Poseidon, who at the time of the
Achaean conquest was the chief male divinity of Greece and the
islands.  The Pelasgians probably spoke an Indo-European
language adopted by their conquerors with slight modifications.
(See further PELASGIANS for a discussion of other views.)

The Achaeans, on the other hand, were tall, fair-haired and
grey-eyed, and their chiefs traced their descent from Zeus,
Who with the Hyperborean Apollo was their chief male divinity.
They first appear at Dodona, whence they crossed Pindus into
Phthiotis.  The leaders of the Achaean invasion were Pelops,
who took possession of Elis, and Aeacus, who became master
of Aegina and was said to have introduced there the worship
of Zeus Panhellenius, whose cult was also set up at Olympia.
They brought with them iron, which they used for their long
swords and for their cutting implements; the costume of both
sexes was distinct from that of the Pelasgians; they used
round shields with a central boss instead of the 8-shaped
or rectaogular shields of the latter; they fastened their
garments with brooches, and burned their dead instead of
burying them as did the Pelasgians.  They introduced a special
style of ornament (``geometric'') instead of that of the
Bronze Age, characterized by spirals and marine animals and
plants.  The Achaeans, or Hellenes, as they were later
termed, were on this hypothesis one of the fair-haired tribes
of upper Europe known to the ancients as Keltoi (Celts),
who from time to time have pressed down over the Alps into
the southern lands, successively as Achaeans, Gauls, Goths
and Franks, and after the conquest of the indigenous small
dark race in no long time died out under climatic conditions
fatal to their physique and morale.  The culture of the
Homeric Achaeans corresponds to a large extent with that
of the early Iron Age of the upper Danube (Hallstatt)
and to the early Iron Age of upper Italy (Villanova).

See W. Ridgeway, The Early Age of Greece (1901), for a
detailed discussion of the evidence; articles by Ridgeway
and J. L. Myres in the Classical Review, vol. xvi. 1902,
pp. 68-93, 135. See also J. B. Bury's History of Greece
(1902) and art. in Journal of Hellenic Studies, xv., 1895,
pp. 217 foll.; G. G. A. Murray, Rise of the Greek Epic
(1907), chap. ii.; Andrew Lang, Homer and his Age (1906);
G. Busolt, Griech.  Gesch. ed. 2, vol. i. p. 190 (1893); D.
B. Monro's ed. of the Iliad (1901), pp. 484-488. (W. RI.)

ACHAEMENES (HAKHAMANI), the eponymous ancestor of the royal
house of Persia, the Achaemenidae, ``a clan fretre of the
Pasargadae'' (Herod. i. 125), the leading Persian tribe. According
to Darius in the Behistun inscription and Herod. iii. 75, vii.
11, he was the father of Teispes, the great-grandfather of
Cyrus.  Cyrus himself, in his proclamation to the Babylonians
after the conquest of Babylon, does not mention his name.
Whether he really was a historical personage, or merely
the mythical ancestor of the family cannot be decided.
According to Aelian (Hist. anim. xii. 21), he was bred by an
eagle.  We learn from Cyrus's proclamation that Teispes and
his successors had become kings of Anshan, i.e. a part of
Elam (Susiana), Where they ruled as vassals of the Median
kings, until Cyrus the Great in 550 B.C. founded the Persian
empire.  After the death of Cambyses, the younger line of
the Achaemenidae came to the throne with Darius, the son
of Hystaspes, who was, like Cyrus, the great-grandson of
Teispes.  Cyrus, Darius and all the later kings of Persia
call themselves Achaemenides (Hakhamanishiya). With
Darius III. Codomannus the dynasty became extinct and
the Persian empire came to an end (330).  The adjective
Achaemenius is used by the Latin poets as the equivalent
of ``Persian'' (Horace, Odes, ii. 12, 21). See PERSIA.

The name Achaemenes is borne by a son of Darius I., brother of
Xerxes.  After the first rebellion of Egypt, he became
satrap of Egypt (484 B.C.); he commanded the Persian
fleet at Salamis, and was (460 B.C.) defeated and slain
by Inarus, the leader of the second rebellion of Egypt.

ACHARD, FRANZ CARL (1753--1821), Prussian chemist, was born
at Berlin on the 28th of April 1753, and died at Kunern, in
Silesia, on the 20th of April 1821.  He was a pioneer in
turning to practical account A. S. Marggraf's discovery
of the presence of sugar in beetroot, and by the end of
the 18th century he was producing considerable quantities
of beet-sugar, though by a very imperfect process, at
Kunern, on an estate which was granted him about 1800 by
the king of Prussia.  There too he carried on a school of
instruction in sugar-manufacture, which had an international
reputation.  For a time he was director of the physics
class of the Berlin Academy of Sciences, and he published
several volumes of chemical and physical researches,
discovering among other things a method of working platinum.

ACHARIUS, ERIK (1757-1819), Swedish botanist, was born On the
10th of October 1757, and in 1773 entered Upsala University,
where he was a pupil of Linnaeus.  He graduated M.D. at Lund in
1782, and in 1801 was appointed professor of botany at Wadstena
Academy.  He devoted himself to the study of lichens, and all
his publications were connected with that class of plants, his
Lichenographia Universalis (Gottingen, 1804) being the most
important.  He died at Wadstena on the 13th of August 1819.

ACHATES, the companion of Aeneas in Virgil's
Aeneid. The expression ``fidus Achates'' has
become proverbial for a loyal and devoted companion.

ACHELOUS (mod. Aspropotamo, ``white river''), the
largest river in Greece (130 m.).  It rises in Mt. Pindus,
and, dividing Aetolla from Acarnania, falls into the Ionian
Sea. In the lower part of its course the river winds through
fertile, marshy plains. Its water is charged with fine
mud, which is deposited along its banks and at its mouth,
where a number of small islands (Echinades) have been
formed.  It was formerly called Thoas, from its impetuosity;
and its upper portion was called by some Inachus, the
name Acholous being restricted to the shorter eastern
branch.  Acholous is coupled with Ocean by Homer (Il. xxi.
193) as chief of rivers, and the name is given to several
other rivers in Greece.  The Dame appears in cult and in
mythology as that of the typical river-god; a familiar
legend is that of his contest with Heracles for Deianira.

ACHENBACH, ANDREAS (1815-- ), German landscape painter,
was born at Cassel in 1815.  He began his art education in
1827 in Dusseldorf under W. Schadow and at the academy. In
his early work he followed the pseudo-idealism of the German
romantic school, but on removing to Munich in 1835, the
strooger influence of L. Gurlitt turned his talent into new
channels, and he became the founder of the German realistic
school.  Although his landscapes evince too much of his aim at
picture-making and lack personal temperament, he is a master
of technique, and is historically important as a reformer.  A
number of his finest works are to be found at the Berlin National
Gallery, the New Pinakothek in Munich, and the galleries at
Dresden, Darmstadt, Cologne, Dusseldorf, Leipzig and Hamburg.

His brother, OSWALD ACHENBACH (1827--1905), was born
at Dusseldorf and received his art education from
Andreas.  His landscapes generally dwell on the rich and
glowing effects of colour which drew him to the Bay of
Naples and the neighbourhood of Rome.  He is represented
at most of the important German galleries of modern art.

ACHENWALL, GOTTFRIED (1719-1772), German statisticiao,
was born at Elbing, in East Prussia, in October 1719.  He
studied at Jena, Halle and Leipzig, and took a degree at
the last-named university.  He removed to Marburg in 1746,
where for two years he read lectures on history and on
the law of nature and of nations.  Here, too, he commenced
those inquiries in statistics by which his name became
known.  In 1748 he was given a professorship at Gottingen,
where he resided till his death in 1772.  His chief works
were connected with statistics. The Staatsverfassung der
heutigen vornehmsten europaischen Reiche appeared first in
1749, and revised editions were published in 1762 and 1768.

ACHERON, in Greek mythology, the son of Gaea or Demeter. As a
punishment for supplying the Titans with water in their contest
with Zeus, he was turned into a river of Hades, over which
departed souls were ferried by Charon.  The name (meaning the
river of ``woe'') was eventually used to designate the whole
of the lower world (Stobaeus, Ecl. Phys. i. 41, sec. sec.  50, 54).

ACHIACHARUS, a name occurring in the book of Tobit (i.
21 f.) as that of a nephew of Tobit and an official at the
court of Esarhaddon at Nineveh.  There are references in
Rumanian, Slavonic, Armenian, Arabic and Syriac literature
to a legend, of which the hero is Ahikar (for Armenian,
Arabic and Syriac, see The Story of Ahikar, F. C.
Conybeare, Rondel Harris and Agnes Lewis, Camb. 1898), and
it was pointed out by George Hoffmann in 1880 that this
Ahikar and the Achiacharus of Tobit are identical.  It
has been contended that there are traces of the legend even
in the New Testament, and there is a striking similarity
between it and the Life of Aesop by Maximus Planudes (ch.
xxiii.-xxxii.).  An eastern sage Achaicarus is mentioned by
Strabo.  It would seem, therefore, that the legend was
undoubtedly oriental in origin, though the relationship
of the various versions can scarcely be recovered.

See the Jewish Encyclopaedia and the Encyclopaedia Biblica;
also M. R. James in The Guardian, Feb. 2, 1898, p. 163 f.

ACHILL (``Eagle''), the largest island off Ireland, separated
from the Curraun peninsula of the west coast by the narrow
Achill Sound.  Pop. (1901) 4929.  It is included in the county
Mayo, in the western parliamentary division.  Its shape is
triangular, and its extent is 15 m. from E. to W. and 12 from
N. to S. The area is 57 sq. m.  The island is mountainous,
the highest points being Slieve Croaghaun (2192 ft.) in the
west, and Shevemore (2204 ft.) in the north; the extreme
western point is the bold and rugged promontory of Achill
Head, and the northwestern and south-western coasts consist
of ranges of magnificent cliffs, reaching a height of 800
ft. in the cliffs of Minaun, near the village of Keel on the
south.  The seaward slope of Croaghaun is abrupt and in
parts precipitous, and its jagged flanks, together with
the serrated ridge of the Head and the view over the broken
coast-line and islands of the counties Mayo and Galway,
attract many visitors to the island during summer. Desolate
bogs, incapable of cultivation, alternate with the mountains;
and the inhabitants earn a scanty subsistence by fishing and
tillage, or by seeking employment in England and Scotland
during the harvesting.  The Congested Districts Board,
however, have made efforts to improve the Condition of the
people, and a branch of the Midland Great Western railway
to Achill Sound, together with a swivel bridge across the
sound, improved communications and make for prosperity.
Dugort, the principal village, contains several hotels.
Here is a Protestant colony. known as ``the Settlement'' and
founded in 1834. There are antiquarian remains (cromlechs,
stone circles and the like) at Slievemore and elsewhere.

ACHILLES (Gr. 'Achilleus), one of the most famous of the
hegendary heroes of ancient Greece and the central figure
of Homer's Iliad. He was said to have been the son of
Peleus, king of the Myrmidones of Phthia in Thessaly, by
Thetis, one of the Nereids.  His grandfather Aeacus was,
according to the legend, the son of Zeus himself.  The story
of the childhood of Achilles in Homer differs from that given
by later writers. According to Homer, he was brought up by
his mother at Phthia with his cousin and intimate friend
Patroclus, and learned the arts of war and eloquence from
Phoenix, while the Centaur Chiron taught him music and
medicine.  When summoned to the war against Troy, he
set sail at once with his Myrmidones in fifty ships.

Post-Homeric sources add to the legend certain picturesque
details which bear all the evidence of their primitive
origin, and which in some cases belong to the common stock
of Indo-Germanic myths.  According to one of these stories
Thetis used to lay the infant Achilles every night under
live coals, anointing him by day with ambrosia, in order
to make him immortal. Peleus, having surprised her in the
act, in alarm snatched the boy from the flames; whereupon
Thetis fled back to the sea in anger (Apollodorus iii. 13;
Apollonius Rhodius iv. 869). According to another story Thetis
dipped the child in the waters of the river Styx, by which
his whole body became invulnerable, except that part of his
heel by which she held him; whence the proverbial ``heel
of Achilles'' (Statius, Achilleis, i. 269).  With this
may be compared the similar story told of the northern hero
Sigurd.  The boy was afterwards entrusted to the care of Chiron,
who, to give him the strength necessary for war, fed him
with the entrails of lions and the marrow of bears and wild
boars.  To prevent his going to the siege of Troy, Thetis
disguised him in female apparel, and hid him among the maidens
at the court of King Lycomedes in Scyros; but Odysseus,
coming to the island in the disguise of a pedlar, spread
his wares, including a spear and shield, before the king's
daughters, among whom was Achilles.  Then he caused an alarm
to be sounded; whereupon the girls fled, but Achilles seized
the arms, and so revealed himself, and was easily persuaded
to follow the Greeks (Hyginus, Fab. 96; Statius, Ach.
i.; Apollodorus, l.c.). This story may be compared with
the Celtic legend of the boyhood of Peredur or Perceval.

During the first nine years of the war as described in the
Iliad, Achilles ravaged the country round Troy, and took
twelve cities. In the tenth year occurred the quarrel with
Agamemnon.  In order to appease the wrath of Apollo, who had
visited the camp with a pestilence, Agamemnon had restored
Chryseis, his prize of war, to her father, a priest of the
god, but as a compensation deprived Achilles, who had
openly demanded this restoration, of his favourite slave
Briseis.  Achilles withdrew in wrath to his tent, where
he consoled himself with music and singing, and refused
to take any further part in the war.  During his absence
the Greeks were hard pressed, and at last he so far relaxed
his anger as to allow his friend Patroclus to personate
him, lending him his chariot and armour.  The slaying of
Patroclus by the Trojan hero Hector roused Achilles from his
indifference; eager to avenge his beloved comrade, he sallied
forth, equipped with new armour fashioned by Hephaestus,
slew Hector, and, after dragging his body round the walls
of Troy, restored it to the aged King Priam at his earnest
entreaty.  The Iliad concludes with the funeral rites of
Hector.  It makes no mention of the death of Achilles, but
hints at its taking place ``before the Scaean gates.'' In
the Odyssey (xxiv. 36. 72) his ashes are said to have been
buried in a golden urn, together with those of Patroclus, at
a place on the Hellespont, where a tomb was erected to his
memory; his soul dwells in the lower world, where it is seen by
Odysseus.  The contest between Ajax and Odysseus for his arms
is also mentioned.  The Aethiopis of Arctinus of Miletus
took up the story of the Iliad. It told how Achilles,
having slain the Amazon Penthesileia and Memnon, king of the
Aethiopians, who had come to the assistance of the Trojans,
was himself slain by Paris (Alexander), whose arrow was
guided by Apollo to his vulnerable heel (Virgil, Aen. vi.
57; Ovid, Met. xii. 600). Again, it is said that Achilles,
enamoured of Polyxena, the daughter of Priam, offered to
join the Trojans on condition that he received her hand in
marriage.  This was agreed to; Achilles went unarmed to the
temple of Apollo Thymbraeus, and was slain by Paris (Dietys
iv. 11). According to some, he was slain by Apollo himself
(Quint.  Smyrn. iii. 61; Horace, Odes, iv. 6, 3).
Hyginus (Fab. 107) makes Apollo assume the form of Paris.

Later stories say that Thetis snatched his body from the
pyre and conveyed it to the island of Leuke, at the mouth
of the Danube, where he ruled with Iphigeneia as his
wife; or that he was carried to the Elysian fields, where
his wife was Medea or Helen.  He was worshipped in many
places: at Leuke, where he was honoured with offerings
and games; in Sparta, Elis, and especially Sigeum on
the Hellespont, where his famous tumulus was erected.

Achilles is a typical Greek hero; handsome, brave, celebrated
for his fleetness of foot, prone to excess of wrath and
grief, at the same time he is compassionate, hospitable,
full of affection for his mother and respect for the gods.
In works of art he is represented, like Ares, as a young man
of splendid physical proportions, with bristling hair like a
horse's mane and a slender neck.  Although the figure of the
hero frequently occurs in groups---such as the work of Scopas
showing his removal to the island of Leuke by Poseidon and
Thetis, escorted by Neroids and Tritons, and the combat
over his dead body in the Aeginetan sculptures--no isolated
statue or bust can with certainty be identified with him;
the statue in the Louvre (from the Villa Borghese), which
was thought to have the best claim, is generally taken for
Ares or possibly Alexander.  There are many vase and wall
paintings and bas-reliefs illustrative of incidents in his
life. Various etymologies of the name have been suggested:
``without a lip'' (a', cheilos), Achilles being regarded
as a river-god, a stream which overflows its banks, or,
referring to the story that, when Thetis laid him in the
fire, one of his lips, which he had licked, was consumed
(Tzetzes on Lycophron, 178); ``restrainer of the people,'
(eche-laos); ``healer of sorrow'' (ache-loios); ``the
obscure'' (connected with achlus, ``mist''); ``snakeborn''
(echis), the snake being one of the chief forms taken by
Thetis.  The most generally received view makes him a
god of light, especially of the sun or of the lightning.

See E. H. Meyer, Indogermanische Mythen, ii., Achilleis,
1887; F. G. Welcker, Der epische Cyclus, 1865--1882;
articles in Pauly-Wissowa, Rcal-Encyclopadie der classischen
Altertumswissenschait, Daremberg and Saglio's Dictionnaire
des Antiquites and Roscher's Lexikon der Mythologie;
see also T. W. Allen in Classical Review, May 1906; A. E.
Crawley, J. G. Frazer, A. Lang, Ibid., June, July 1893,
on Achilles in Scyros.  In the article GREEK ART, fig. 12
represents the conflict over the dead body of Achilles.

ACHILLES TATIUS, of Alexandria, Greek rhetorician, author
of the erotic romance, the Adventures of Leucippe and
Cleitophon, flourished about A.D. 450, perhaps later.
Suidas, who alone calls him Statius, says that he became a
Christian and eventually a bishop--like Hellodorus, whom he
imitated--but there is no evidence of this.  Photius, while
severely criticizing his lapses into indecency, highly praises
the conciseness and clearness of his style, which, however,
is artificial and laboured.  Many of the incidents of the
romance are highly improbable, and the characters, except the
heroine, fail to enlist sympathy.  The descriptive passages
and digressions, although tedious and introduced without
adequate reasons, are the best part of the work.  The large
number of existing MSS. attests its popularity. (Editio
princeps, 1601; first important critical edition by (Jacobs,
1821; litter editions by Hirschig, 1856; Hercher, 1858.  There
are translations in many languages; in English by Anthony
Hodges], 1638, and R. Smith, 1855.  See also ROMANCE.)

Suidas also ascribes to this author an Etymology, a
Miscellaneous History af Famous Men, and a treatise On
the Sphere. Part of the last is extant under the title
of An Introduction to the Phaenomena of Aratus. But
if the writer is the prudentissimus Achilles referred
to by Firmicus Maternus (about 336) in his Matheseos
libri, iv. 10, 17 (ed. Krolf), he must have lived long
before the author of Leucippe. The fragment was first
published in 1567, then in the Uranologion of Petavius,
with a Latin translation, 1630.  Nothing definite is known
as to the authorship of the other works, which are lost.

ACHILLINI, ALESSANDRO (1463-1512), Italian philosopher, born
on the 29th of October 1463 at Bologna, was celebrated as a
lecturer both in medicine and in philosophy at Bologna and
Padua, and was styled the second Aristotle.  His philosophical
works were printed in one volume folio, at Venice, in 1508,
and reprinted with considerable additions in 1545, 1551
and 1568. He was also distinguished as an anatomist (see
ANATOMY), among his writhigs being Corporis humani Anatomia
(Venice, 1516-1524), and Anatomicae Annotationes (Bologna,
1520).  He died at Bologna on the 2nd of August 1512.

His brother, GIOVANNI FILOTEO ACHILLINI (1466--1533),
was the author of Il Viridario and other writings, verse
and prose, and his grand-nephew, CLAUDIO ACHILLINI
(1574--1640), was a lawyer who achieved some notoriety
as a versifier of the school of the Secentisti.

ACHIMENES (perhaps from the Gr. achaimienis, an Indian
plant used in magic), a genus of plants, natural order
Gesneraceae (to which belong also Gloxinia and Streptocarpus),
natives of tropical America, and well known in cultivation
as stove or warm greenhouse plants.  They are herbaceous
perennials, generally with hairy serrated leaves and handsome
flowers. The corolla is tubular with a spreading limb, and
varies widely in colour, being white, yellow, orange, crimson,
scarlet, blue or purple.  A large number of hybrids exist in
cultivation.  The plants are grown in the stove till the
flowering period, when they may be removed to the greenhouse.
They are propagated by cuttings, or from the leaves, which are
cut off and pricked in well-drained pots of sandy soil, or by
the scales from the underground tubes, which are rubbed off
and sown like seeds, or by the seeds, which are very small.

ACHIN (Dutch Atjeh), a Dutch government forming the
northern extremity of the island of Sumatra, having an
estimated area of 20,544 sq. m.  The government is divided
into three assistant-residencien--the east coast, the west
coast and Great Achin.  The physical geography (see SUMATRA)
is imperfectly understood.  Ranges of mountains, roughly
parallel to the long axis of the island, and characteristic
of the whole of it, appear to occupy the interior, and reach
an extreme height of about 12,000 ft. in the south-west
of the government.  The coasts are low and the rivers
insignificant, rising in the coast ranges and flowing through
the coast states (the chief of which are Pedir, Gighen and
Samalanga on the N.; Edi, Perlak and Langsar on the E.;
Kluwah, Rigas and Melabuh on the W.). The chief ports are
Olehleh, the port of Kotaraja or Achin (formerly Kraton,
now the seat of the Dutch government), Segli on the N., Edi
on the E., and Analabu or Melabuh on the W. Kotaraja lies
near the northern extremity of the island, and consists
of detached houses of timber and thatch, clustered ill
enclosed groups called kampongs, and buried in a forest of
fruit-trees.  It is situated nearly 3 m. from the sea, in
the valley of the Achin 1iver, which in its upper part, near
Sehmun, is 3 m. broad, the river having a breadth of 99 ft.
and a depth of 1 1/2 ft.; but in its lower course, north of
its junction with the Krung Darn, the valley broadens to 12 1/2
m.  The marshy soil is covered by rice-fields, and on
higher ground by kampongs full of trees.  The river at
its mouth is 327 ft. broad and 20-33 ft. deep, but before
it lies a sandbank covered at low water by a depth of only 4
ft.  The Dutch garrison in Kotaraja occupies the old Achinese
citadel.  The town is connected by rail with Olehleh, and
the line also extends up the valley.  The construction
of another railway has been undertaken along the east
coast.  The following industries are of some importance
--gold-working, weapon-making, silk-weaving, the making of
pottery, fishing and coasting trade.  The annual value of the
exports (chiefly pepper) is about L. 58,000; of the imports,
from L. 165,000 to L. 250,000.  The population of Achin in
1898 was estimated at 535,432, of whom 328 were Europeans,
3933 Chinese, 30 Arabs, and 372 other foreign Asiatics.

The Achinese, a people of Malayan stock but darker,
somewhat taller and not so pleasant-featured as the true
Malays, regard themselves as distinct from the other
Sumatrans.  Their nobles claim Arab descent.  They were at
one time Hinduized, as is evident from their traditions,
the many Sanskrit words in their language, and their
general appearance, which suggests Hindu as well as Arab
blood.  They are Mahommedans, and although Arab influence has
declined, their nobles still wear the Moslem flowing robe and
turban (though the women go unveiled), and they use Arabic
script.  The chief characteristic is their love of fighting;
every man is a soldier and every village has its army.  They
are industrious and skilful agriculturists, metal-workers and
weavers.  They build excellent ships.  Their chief amusements
are gambling and opium-smoking.  Their social organization is
communal.  They live in kampongs, which combine to form
mukims, districts or hundreds (to use the nearest English
term), which again combine to form sagis, of which there are
three.  Achin literature, unlike the language, is entirely
Malay; it includes poetry, a good deal of theology and several
chronicles.  Northern Sumatra was visited by several European
travellers in the middle ages, such as Marco Polo, Friar
Odorico and Nicolo Conti.  Some of these as well as Asiatic
writers mention Lambri, a state which must have nearly
occupied the position of Achin.  But the first voyager to visit
Achin, by that name, was Alvaro Tellez, a captain of Tristan
d'Acunha's fleet, in 1506.  It was then a mere dependency of
the adjoining state of Pedir; and the latter, with Pasei,
formed the only states on the coast whose chiefs claimed the
title of sultan. Yet before twenty years had passed Achin
had not only gained independence, but had swallowed up all
other states of northern Sumatra.  It attained its climax of
power in the time of Sultan Iskandar Muda (1607--1636), under
whom the subject coast extended from Aru opposite Malacca
round by the north to Benkulen on the west coast, a sea-board
of not less than 1100 miles; and besides this, the king's
supremacy was owned by the large island of Nias, and by the
continental Malay states of Johor, Pahang, Kedah and Perak.

The chief attraction of Achin to traders in the 17th century
must have been gold.  No place in the East, unless Japan,
was so abundantly supplied with gold.  The great repute
of Achin as a place of trade is shown by the fact that to
this port the first Dutch (1599) and first English (1602)
commercial ventures to the Indies were directed.  Sir James
Lancaster, the English commodore, carried letters from Queen
Elizabeth to the king of Achin, and was well received by the
prince then reigning, Alauddin Shah.  Another exchange of
letters took place between King James I. and Iskandar Muda in
1613.  But native caprice and jealousy of the growing force
of the European nations in these seas, and the rivalries
between those nations themselves, were destructive of sound
trade; and the English factory, though several times set up,
was never long maintained.  The French made one great effort
(1621) to establish relations with Achin, but nothing came of
it.  Still the foreign trade of Achin, though subject to
interruptions, was important.  William Dampier (c. 1688)
and others speak of the number of foreign merchants settled
there--English, Dutch, Danes, Portuguese, Chinese, &c. Dampier
says the anchorage was rarely without ten or fifteen sail of
different nations, bringing vast quantities of rice, as well
as silks, chintzes, muslins and opium.  Besides the Chinese
merchants settled at Achin, others used to come annually with
the junks, ten or twelve in number, which arrived in June.
A regular fair was then established, which lasted two months,
and was known as the China camp, a great resort of foreigners.

Hostilities with the Portuguese began from the time of
the first independent king of Achin; and they had little
remission till the power of Portugal fell with the loss of
Malacca (1641). Not less than ten times before that event
were armaments despatched from Achin to reduce Malacca, and
more than once its garrison was hard pressed.  One of these
armadas, equipped by Iskandar Muda in 1615, gives an idea of
the king's resources. It consisted of 500 sail, of which 250
were galleys, and among these a hundred were greater than
any then used in Europe. Sixty thousand men were embarked.

On the death of Iskandar's successor in 1641, the widow
was placed on the throne; and as a female reign favoured
the oligarchical tendencies of the Malay chiefs, three
more queens were allowed to reign successively.  In
1699 the Arab or fanatical party suppressed female
government, and put a chief of Arab blood on the throne.
The remaining history of Achin was one of rapid decay.

After the restoration of Java to the Netherlands in 1816, a
good deal of weight was attached by the neighbouring British
colonies to the maintenance of influence in Achin; and in
1819 a treaty of friendship was concluded with the Calcutta
government which excluded other European nationalities from
fixed residence in Achin.  When the British government, in
1824, made a treaty with the Netherlands, surrendering the
remaining British settlements in Sumatra in exchange for
certain possessions on the continent of Asia, no reference
was made in the articles to the Indian treaty of 1819; but an
understanding was exchanged that it should be modified, while no
proceedings hostile to Achin should be attempted by the Dutch.

This reservation was formally abandoned by the British government
in a convention signed at the Hague on the 2nd of November 1871;
and in March 1873 the government of Batavia declared war upon
Achin.  Doubtless there was provocation, for the sultan
of Achin had not kept to the understanding that he was to
guarantee immunity from piracy to foreign traders; but the
necessity for war was greatly doubted, even in Holland.  A
Dutch force landed at Achin in April 1873, and attacked the
palace.  It was defeated with considerable loss, including
that of the general (Kohler).The approach of the south-west
monsoon precluded the immediate renewal of the attempt; but
hostilities were resumed, and Achin fell in January 1874.
The natives, however, maintained themselves in the interior,
inaccessible to the Dutch troops, and carried on a guerilla
warfare.  General van der Hoyden appeared to have subdued
them in 1878-81, but they broke out again in 1896 under
the traitor Taku Umar, who had been in alliance with the
Dutch.  He died shortly afterwards, but the trouble was not
ended.  General van Hentsz carried on a successful campaign in
1898 seq., but in 1901, the principal Achinese chiefs on the
north coast having surrendered, the pretender-sultan fled to
the Gajoes, a neighbouring inland people.  Several expeditions
involving heavy fighting were necessary against these in 1901-4,
and a certain amount of success was achieved, but the pretender
escaped, revolt still smouldered and hostilities were continued.

See P. J. Vein, Atchini en zijne betrekkingen tot Nederland
(Leyden, 1873); J. A. Kruijt, Atjeh en de Atjehers (Leyden,
1877); Kielstra, Beschrijving van dcn Atjeh-oorlog (The
Hague, 1883); Van Langen, Atjeh's Wesskust, Tijdschrift
Aardrjjko, Genotktsch. (Amsterdam, 1888), p. 226;
Renaud, Jaarboek van het Mynwezen (1882); J. Jacobs,
Het famille-en Kampongleven op Groot Atjeh (Leyden,
1894); C. Snouck Hurgronje, De Atjehers (Batavia, 1894).

ACHOLI, a negro people of the upper Nile valley, dwelling on
the east bank of the Bahr-el-Jebel, about a hundred miles north
of Albert Nyanza.  They are akin to the Shilluks of the White
Nile.  They frequently decorate the temples or cheeks with
wavy or zigzag scars, and also the thighs with scrolls; some
pierce the ears.  Their dwelling-places are circular huts
with a high peak, furnished with a mud sleeping-platform,
jars of grain and a sunk fireplace.  The interior walls are
daubed with mud and decorated with geometrical or conventional
designs in red, white or grey.  The Acholi are good hunters,
using nets and spears, and keep goats, sheep and cattle.  In
war they use spears and long, narrow shields of giraffe or ox
hide.  Their dialect is closely allied to those of the Alur,
Lango and ja-Luo tribes, all four being practically pure
Nilotic.  Their religion is a vague fetishism.  By early
explorers the Acholi were called Shuli, a name now obsolete.

ACHROMATISM (Gr. a-, privative, chroma, colour),
in optics, the property of transmitting white light,
without decomposing it into the colours of the spectrum;
``achromatic lenses'' are lenses which possess this
property. (See LENS, ABERRATION and PHOTOGRAPHY.)

ACID (from the Lat. root ac-, sharp; acere, to be
sour), the name loosely applied to any sour substance;
in chemistry it has a more precise meaning, denoting a
substance containing hydrogen which may be replaced by
metals with the formation of salts. An acid may therefore be
regarded as a salt of hydrogen.  Of the general characters
of acids we may here notice that they dissolve alkaline
substances, certain metals, &c., neutralize alkalies and
redden many blue and violet vegetable colouring matters.

The ancients probably possessed little knowledge indeed of
acids.  Vinegar (or impure acetic acid), which is produced
when wine is allowed to stand, was known to both the
Greeks and Romans, who considered it to be typical of acid
substances; this is philologically illustrated by the words
oxus, acidus, sour, and oxos, acetus, vinegar.
Other acids became known during the alchemistic period;
and the first attempt at a generalized conception of these
substances was made by Paracelsus, who supposed them to contain
a principle which conferred the properties of sourness and
solubility.  Somewhat similar views were promoted by Becher,
who named the principle acidum primogenium, and held
that it was composed of the Paracelsian elements ``earth''
and ``water.'' At about the same time Boyle investigated
several acids; he established their general reddening of
litmus, their solvent power of metals and basic substances,
and the production of neutral bodies, or salts, with alkalies.
Theoretical conceptions were revived by Stahl, who held that
acids were the fundamentals of all salts, and the erroneous
idea that sulphuric acid was the principle of all acids.

The phlogistic theory of the processes of calcination and
combustion necessitated the view that many acids, such as
those produced by combustion, e.g. sulphurous, phosphoric,
carbonic, &c., should be regarded as elementary substances.
This principle more or less prevailed until it was overthrown
by Lavoisier's doctrine that oxygen was the acid-producing
element; Lavoisier being led to this conclusion by the almost
general observation that acids were produced when non-metallic
elements were burnt.  The existence of acids not containing
oxygen was, in itself, sufficient to overthrow this idea,
but, although Berthollet had shown, in 1789, that sulphuretted
hydrogen (or hydrosulphuric acid) contained no oxygen,
Lavoisier's theory held its own until the researches of Davy,
Gay-Lussac and Thenard on hydrochloric acid and chlorine,
and of Gay-Lussac on hydrocyanic acid, established beyond all
cavil that oxygen was not essential to acidic properties.

In the Lavoisierian nomenclature acids were regarded as
binary oxygenated compounds, the associated water being
relegated to the position of a mere solvent.  Somewhat
similar views were held by Berzelius, when developing his
dualistic conception of the composition of substances.  In
later years Berzelius renounced the ``oxygen acid'' theory,
but not before Davy, and, almost simultaneously, Dulong, had
submitted that hydrogen and not oxygen was the acidifying
principle. Opposition to the ``hydrogen-acid'' theory centred
mainly about the hypothetical radicals which it postulated;
moreover, the electrochemical theory of Berzelius exerted
a stultifying influence on the correct views of Davy and
Dulong.  In Berzelius' system potassium sulphate is to be
regarded as K2O+.SO3-; electrolysis should simply effect
the disruption of the positive and negative components, potash
passing with the current, and sulphuric acid against the
current.  Experiment showed, however, that instead of only
potash appearing at the negative electrode, hydrogen is also
liberated; this is inexplicable by Berzelius's theory, but
readily explained by the ``hydrogen-acid'' theory.  By this
theory potassium is liberated at the negative electrode and
combines immediately with water to form potash and hydrogen.

Further and stronger support was given when J. Liebig promoted
his doctrine of polybasic acids.  Dalton's idea that elements
preferentially combined in equiatomic proportions had as an
immediate inference that metallic oxides contained one atom
of the metal to one atom of oxygen, and a simple expansion
of this conception was that one atom of oxide combined with
one atom of acid to form one atom of a neutral salt.  This
view, which was specially supported by Gay-Lussac and Leopold
Gmelin and accepted by Berzelius, necessitated that all
acids were monobasic.  The untenability of this theory was
proved by Thomas Graham's investigation of the phosphoric
acids; for he then showed that the ortho- (ordinary), pyro-
and metaphosphoric acids contained respectively 3, 2 and
1 molecules of ``basic water'' (which were replaceable by
metallic oxides) and one molecule of phosphoric oxide, P2
O5.  Graham's work was developed by Liebig, who called into
service many organic acids---citric, tartaric, cyanuric,
comenic and meconic---and showed that these resembled
phosphoric acid; and he established as the criterion of
polybasicity the existence of compound salts with different
metallic oxides.  In formulating these facts Liebig at
first retained the dualistic conception of the structure of
acids; but he shortly afterwards perceived that this view
lacked generality since the halogen acids, which contained
no oxygen but yet formed salts exactly similar in properties
to those containing oxygen, could not be so regarded. This
and other reasons led to his rejection of the dualistic
hypothesis and the adoption, on the ground of probability,
and much more from convenience, of the tenet that ``acids
are particular compounds of hydrogen, in which the latter
can be replaced by metals''; while, on the constitution of
salts, he held that ``neutral salts are those compounds
of the same class in which the hydrogen is replaced by its
equivalent in metal.  The substances which we at present
term anhydrous acids (acid oxides) only become, for the
most part, capable of forming salts with metallic oxides
after the addition of water, or they are compounds which
decompose these oxides at somewhat high temperatures.''

The hydrogen theory and the doctrine of polybasicity as
enunciated by Liebig is the fundamental characteristic of
the modern theory.  A polybasic acid contains more than one
atom of hydrogen which is replaceable by metals; moreover, in
such an acid the replacement may be entire with the formation
of normal salts, partial with the formation of acid salts,
or by two or more different metals with the formation of
compound salts (see SALTS). These facts may be illustrated
with the aid of orthophosphoric acid, which is tribasic:--
         Acid.             Normal salt.            Acid salts.
     H3PO4           Ag3PO4        Na2HPO4; NaH2PO4
     Phosphoric           Silver phosphate.            Acid sodium
       acid.                                           phosphates.
                       Compound salts.
          Mg(NH4)PO4;        Na(NH4)HPO4.
          Magnesium ammonium          Microcosmic
              phosphate;                 salt.
Reference should be made to the articles CHEMICAL
ACTION, THERMOCHEMISTRY and SOLUTIONS, for
the theory of the strength or avidity of acids.

Organic Acids.---Organic acids are characterized by the
presence of the monovalent group--CO.OH, termed the carboxyl
group, in which the hydrogen atom is replaceable by metals
with the formation of salts, and by alkyl radicals with the
formation of esters.  The basicity of an organic acid, as
above defined, is determined by the number of carboxyl groups
present. Oxy-acids are carboxyllc acids which also contain
a hydroxyl group; similarly we may have aldehyde-acids,
ketone-acids, &c. Since the more important acids are treated
under their own headings, or under substances closely allied to
them, we shall here confine ourselves to general relations.

Classification.--It is convenient to distinguish between
aliphatic and aromatic acids; the first named being derived from
open-chain hydrocarbons, the second from ringed hydrocarbon
nuclei.  Aliphatic monobasic acids are further divided
according to the nature of the parent hydrocarbon.  Methane
and its homologues give origin to the ``paraffin'' or ``fatty
series'' of the general formula Cn H2n+1COOH, ethylene
gives origin to the acrylic acid series, CnH2n-1COOH, and
soon.  Dibasic acids of the paraffin series of hydrocarbons
have the general formula CnH2(COOH)2n; malonic and succinic
acids are important members.  The isomerism which occurs as
soon as the molecule contains a few carbon atoms renders any
classification based on empirical molecular formulae somewhat
ineffective; on the other hand, a scheme based on molecular
structure would involve more detail than it is here possible to
give.  For further information, the reader is referred to
any standard work on organic chemistry.  A list of the acids
present in fats and oils is given in the article OILS.

Syntheses of Organic Acids.---The simplest syntheses are
undoubtedly those in which a carboxyl group is obtained
directly from the oxides of carbon, carbon dioxide and carbon
monoxide. The simplest of all include: (1) the synthesis
of sodium oxalate by passing carbon dioxide over metallic
sodium heated to 350 deg. -360 deg. ; (2) the synthesis of potassium
formate from moist carbon dioxide and potassium, potassium
carbonate being obtained simultaneously; (3) the synthesis
of potassium acetate and propionate from carbon dioxide
and sodium methide and sodium ethide; (4) the synthesis of
aromatic acids by the interaction of carbon dioxide, sodium
and a bromine substitution derivative; and (5) the synthesis
of aromatic oxy-acids by the interaction of carbon dioxide
and sodium phenolates (see SALICYLIC ACID). (Carbon monoxide
takes part in the syntheses of sodium formate from sodium
hydrate, or soda lime (at 200 deg. -220 deg. ), and of sodium acetate
and propionate from sodium methylate and sodium ethylate at
160 deg. --200 deg. .  Other reactions which introduce carboxyl groups
into aromatic groups ave: the action of carbonyl chloride on
aromatic hydrocarbons in the presence of aluminium chloride,
acid-chlorides being formed which are readily decomposed
by water to give the acid; the action of urea chloride
Cl.CO.NH2, cyanuric acid (CONH)3, nascent cyanic acid,
or carbanile on hydrocarbons in the presence of aluminium
chloride, acid-amides being obtained which are readily
decomposed to give the acid.  An important nucleus-synthetic
reaction is the saponification of nitriles, which may
be obtained by the interaction of potassium cyanide with
a halogen substitution derivative or a sulphonic acid.

Acids frequently result as oxidation products, being almost
invariably formed in all cases of energetic oxidation.  There
are certain reactions, however, in which oxidation can be
successfully applied to the synthesis of acids.  Thus primary
alcohols and aldehydes, both of the aliphatic and aromatic
series, readily yield on oxidation acids containing the same
number of carbon atoms.  These reactions may be shown thus:-
          R.CH2OH -> R.CHO -> R.CO.OH.
In the case of aromatic aldehydes, acids are also obtained
by means of ``Cannizzaro's reaction'' (see BENZALDEHYDE).
An important oxidation synthesis of aromatic acids is
from hydrocarbons with aliphatic side chains; thus toluene,
or methylbenzene, yields benzoic acid, the xylenes, or
dimethyl-benzene, yield methyl-benzoic acids and phthalic
acids.  Ketones, secondary alcohols and tertiary alcohols
yield a mixture of acids on oxidation.  We may also notice
the disruption of unsaturated acids at the double linkage
into a mixture of two acids, when fused with potash.

In the preceding instances the carboxyl group has been
synthesized or introduced into a molecule; we have now to
consider syntheses from substances already containing carboxyl
groups.  Of foremost importance are the reactions termed the
malonic acid and the aceto-acetic ester syntheses; these are
discussed under their own headings.  The electrosyntheses
call for mention here.  It is apparent that metallic salts
of organic acids would, in aqueous solution, be ionized,
the positive ion being the metal, and the negative ion the
acid residue.  Esters, however, are not ionized.  It is
therefore apparent that a mixed salt and ester, for example
KO2C.CH2.CH2.CO2C2H5, would give only two ions, viz.
potassium and the rest of the molecule.  If a solution of
potassium acetate be electrolysed the products are ethane,
carbon dioxide, potash and hydrogen; in a similar manner,
normal potassium succinate gives ethylene, carbon dioxide,
potash and hydrogen; these reactions may be represented:-
 CH3.CO2 K       CH3 CO2 K*     CH2.CO K     CH2 CO2 K.
              |  -> |     +      +          |        | ->||    +      +
 CH3.CO2 K       CH3 CO2 K*     CH2.CO K     CH2 CO2 K.
By electrolysing a solution of potassium ethyl succinate,
KO2C.(CH2)2CO2C2H5, the KO2C. groups are split
off and the two residues .(CH2)2CO2C2H5 combine to
form the ester (CH2)4(CO2C2H5)2.  In the same way,
by electrolysing a mixture of a metallic salt and an ester,
other nuclei may be condensed; thus potassium acetate and
potassium ethyl succinate yield CH3.CH2.CH2.CO2C2H5.

Reactions.--Organic acids yield metallic salts with bases,
and ethereal salts or esters (q.v.), R.CO.OR', with alcohols.
Phosphorus chlorides give acid chlorides, R.CO.Cl, the hydroxyl
group being replaced by chlorine, and acid anhydrides, (R.CO)2O,
a molecule of water being split off between two carboxyl
groups.  The ammonium salts when heated lose one mobecule
of water and are converted into acid-amides, R.CO.NH2,
which by further dehydration yield nitriles, R.CN.  The
calcium salts distilled with calcium formate yield aldehydes
(q.v.); distilled with soda-lime, ketones (q.v.) result.

ACIDALIUS, VALENS (1567-1595), German scholar and critic,
was born at Wittstock in Brandenburg.  After studying at
Rostock, Grelfswald and Helmstedt, and residing about
three years in Italy, he settled at Breslau, where he is
said to have embraced the Roman Catholic religion.  Early
in 1595 he accepted an invitation to Neisse, about fifty
miles from Breslau, where he died of brain fever on the
25th of May, at the age of twenty-eight.  His excessive
application to study, and the attacks made upon him in
connexion with a pamphlet of which he was reputed the
author, doubtless hastened his premature end. Acidalius wrote
notes on Velleius Paterculus (1590), Curtius (1594), the
panegyrists, Tacitus and Plautus, published after his death.

See Leuschner, Commeutatio de A. V. Vita, Moribus,
et Scriptis (1757); F. Adam, ``Der Neisser Rektor,''
in Bericht der Philomathic in Neisse (1872).

ACID-AMIDES, chemical compounds which may be considered
as derived from ammonia by replacement of its hydrogen with
acidyl residues, the substances produced being known as
primary, secondary or tertiary amides, according to the
number of hydrogen atoms replaced.  Of these compounds,
the primary amides of the type R.CO.NH2 are the most
important.  They may be prepared by the dry distillation of
the ammonium salts of the acids (A. W. Hofmann, Ber., 1882,
15, p. 977), by the partial hydrolysis of the nitriles, by
the action of ammonia or ammonium carbonate on acid chlorides
or anhydrides, or by heating the esters (q.v.) with
ammonia.  They are solid crystalline compounds (formamide
excepted) which are at first soluble in water, the solubility,
however, decreasing as the carbon content of the molecule
increases.  They are easily hydrolysed, breaking up into
their components when boiled with acids or alkanes.  They
form compounds with hydrochloric acid when this gas is
passed into their ethereal solution; these compounds,
however, are very unstable, being readily decomposed by
water.  On the other hand, they show faintly acid properties
since the hydrogen of the amide group can be replaced
by metals to give such compounds as mercury acetamide
(CH3CONH)2Hg.  Nitrous acid decomposes them, with elimination
of nitrogen and the formation of the corresponding acid,
     RCO.NH2 + ONOH = R.COOH + N2 + H2O.
When distilled with phosphoric anhydride they yield
nitriles. By the action of bromine and alcoholic potash on
the amides, they are converted into amines containing one
carbon atom less than the original amide, a reaction which
possesses great theoretical importance (A. W. Hofmann),
  R.CONH2 -> R.CONHBr -> R.NH2 + K2CO3 + KBr + H2O.
Formamide, H.CONH2, is a liquid readily soluble in water,
boillng at about 195 deg.  C. with partial decomposition.
Acetamide, CH3.CONH2, is a white deliquescent crystalline
solid, which melts at 82-83 deg.  C. and boils at 222 deg.  C. It
is usually prepared by distilling ammonium acetate.  It
is readily soluble in water and alcohol, but insoluble in
ether.  Benzamide, C6H5.CONH2, crystallizes in leaflets
which melt at 130 deg.  C. It is prepared by the action of
ammonium carbonate on benzoyl chloride.  It yields a silver
salt which with ethyl iodide forms benzimidoethyl ether,
C6H5C: (NH).OC2H5, a behaviour which points to the
silver salt as being derived from the tautomeric imidobenzoic
acid, C6H5C: (NH).OH (J. Tafel, Ber., 1890, 23, p.
104). On the preparation of the substituted amides from
the corresponding sodamides see A. W. Titherley (Journ.
Chem.  Soc., 1901, 59, p. 391).  The secondary and tertiary
amides of the types (RCO)2NH and (RCO)3N may be prepared
by heating the primary amides or the nitriles with acids or
acid anhydrides to 200 deg.  C. Thiamides of the type R.CSNH2
are known, and result by the addition of sulphuretted
hydrogen to the nitriles, or by the action of phosphorus
pentasulphide on the acid-amides. They readily decompose on
heating, and are easily hydrolysed by alkanes; they possess
a somewhat more acid character than the acid-amides.

ACINACES (from the Greek), an ancient Persian sword, short
and straight, and worn, contrary to the Roman fashion, on
the right side, or sometimes in front of the body, as shown
in the bas-reliefs found at Persepolis.  Among the Persian
nobility it was frequently made of gold, being worn as a
badge of distinction.  The acinaces was an object of religious
worship with the Scythians and others (Herod. iv. 62).

ACINETA (so named by C. G. Ehrenberg), a genus of suctorial
Infusoria characterized by the possession of a stalk and
cup-shaped sheath or theca for the body, and endogenous budding.
O. Butschli has separated off the genus Metacineta (for
A. mystacina), which reproduces by direct bud-fission.

ACINUS (Lat. for a berry), a term in botany applied to such
fruits as the blackberry or raspberry, composed of small
seedlike berries, and also to those berries themselves, or to
grapestones.  By analogy, acinus is applied in anatomy
to similar granules or glands, or lobules of a gland.

ACIREALE, a town and episcopal see of the province of
Catania, Sicily; from the town of the same name it is distant 9
m.  N. by E. Pop. (1901) 35,418.  It has some importance as
a thermal station, and the springs were used by the Romans.
It takes its name from the river Acis, into which, according
to the legend, Acis, the lover of Galatea, was changed after
he had been slain by Polyphemus.  The rocks which Polyphemus
hurled at Ulysses are identified with the seven Scogli de'
Ciclopi, or Faraglioni, a little to the south of Acireale.

ACIS, in Greek mythology, the son of Pan (Faunus) and the
nymph Syntaethis, a beautiful shepherd of Sicily, was the lover
of the Nereid Galatea.  His rival the Cyclops Polyphemus
surprised them together, and crushed him to pieces with a rock.
His blood, gushing forth from beneath, was metamorphosed by
Galatea into the river bearing his name (now Fiume di Jaci),
which was celebrated for the coldness of its waters (Ovid,
Met. xiii. 750; Silius Italicus, Punica, xiv. 221).

ACKERMAN, FRANCIS (c. 1335--1387), Flemish soldier and
diplomatist, was born at Ghent, and about 1380 became prominent
during the struggle between the burghers of that town and
Louis II. (de Male), count of Flanders.  He was partly
responsible for inducing Philip van Artevelde to become first
captain of the city of Ghent in 1382, and at the head of
some troops scoured the surrounding country for provisions
and thus saved Ghent from being starved into submission.
By his diplomatic abilities he secured the assistance of
the citizens of Brussels, Louvain and Liege, and, having
been made admiral of the Flemish fleet, visited England
and obtained a promise of help from King Richard II. After
Artevelde's death in November 1382, he acted as leader of the
Flemings, gained several victories and increased his fame by
skilfully conducting a retreat from Damme to Ghent in August
1385.  He took part in the conclusion of the treaty of peace
between Ghent and Philip the Bold, duke of Burgundy, the
successor of Count Louis, in December 1385.  Trusting in
Philip, and ignoring the warnings of his friends, Ackerman
remained in Flanders, and was murdered at Ghent on the 22nd
of July 1387, leaving a memory of chivalry and generosity.

See Jean Froissart, Chroniques, edited by S. Luce
and G. Raynaud (Paris, 1869-1897); Johannes Brandon,
Chronodromon, edited hy K. de Lettenhove in the
Chroniques rotatives a L'histoire de La Belgique sous
la domination des ducs de Bourgogne (Brussels, 1870).

ACKERMANN, JOHANN CHRISTIAN GOTTLIEB (1756-1801), German
physician, was born at Zeillenroda, in Upper Saxony, on the
17th of February 1756, and died at Altdorf on the 9th of March
1801.  At the age of fifteen he became a student of medicine
at Jena under E. G. Baldinger, whom he followed to Gottingen
in 1773, and afterwards he studied for two years at Halle.
A few years' practice at Stendal (1778-1799), where there
were numerous factories, enabled him to add many valuable
original observations to his translation (1780-1783) of
Bernardino Ramazzini's (1633-1714) treatise on diseases of
artificers.  In 1786 he became professor of medicine at
the university of Altdorf, in Franconia, occupying first
the chair of chemistry, and then, from 1794 till his death
in 1801, that of pathology and therapeutics. He wrote
Institutiones Historiae Medicinae (Nuremberg, 1792) and
Institutiones Therapiae Generalls (Nuremberg and Altdorf,
1784-1795), besides various handbooks and translations.

ACKERMANN, LOUISE VICTORINE CHOQUET (1813-1890), French poet,
was born in Paris on the 30th of November 1813. Educated by
her father in the philosophy of the Encyclopaedists, Victorine
Choquet went to Berlin in 1838 to study German, and there
married in 1843 Paul Ackermann, an Alsatian philologist. After
little more than two years of happy married life her husband
died, and Madame Ackermann went to live at Nice with a favourite
sister.  In 1855 she published Contes en vers, and in 1862
Contes et poesies. Very different from these simple and
charming contes is the work on which Madame Ackermann's
real reputation rests.  She published in 1874 Poesies,
premieres poesies, poesies philosophiques, a volume of
sombre and powerful verse, expressing her revolt against human
suffering.  The volume was enthusiastically reviewed in the
Revue des deux mondes for May 1871 by E. Caro, who, though
he deprecated the impiete desesperee of the verses,
did full justice to their vigour and the excellence of their
form.  Soon after the publication of this volume Madame Ackermann
removed to Paris,where she gathered round her a circle of
friends, but published nothing further except a prose volume, the
Pensees d'un solitaire (1883), to which she prefixed a short
autobiography.  She died at Nice on the 2nd of August 1890.

See also Anatole France, La vie litteraire, 4th series (1892);
the comte d'Haussonville, Mme. Ackermann (1882); M. Citoleux,
La poesie philosophique au XIXe. siecle (vol. i., Mme.
Ackermann d'apres de nombreux documents inedits, Paris, 1906).

ACKERMANN, RUDOLPH (1764-1834), Anglo-German inventor and
publisher, was born on the 20th of April 1764 at Schneeberg, in
Saxony.  He had been a saddler and coachbuilder in different
German cities, Paris and London for ten years before, in
1795, he established a print-shop and drawing-school in the
Strand.  Ackermann set up a lithographic press, and applied
it in 1817 to the illustration of his Repository of Arts,
Literature, Fashions,; &c. (monthly until 1828 when forty
volumes had appeared).  Rowlandson and other distinguished
artists were regular contributors.  He also introduced the
fashion of the once popular English Annuals, beginning in
1825 with Forget-me-not; and he published many illustrated
volumes of topography and travel, The Microcosm of London
(3 vols., 1808-1811), Westminster Abbey (2 vols., 1812),
Pine Rhine (1820), The World in Miniature (43 vols.,
1821--1826), &c. Ackermann was an enterprising man; he
patented (1801) a method for rendering paper and cloth
waterproof, erected a factory at Chelsea for the purpose
and was one of the first to illuminate his own premises with
gas.  Indeed the introduction of lighting by gas owed much to
him.  After the battle of Leipzig Ackermann collected nearly
a quarter of a million sterling for the German sufferers.
He died at Finchley, near London, on the 30th of March 1834.

ACKNOWLEDGMENT (from the old acknow, a compound of on-
and know, to know by the senses, which passed through the
forms oknow, aknow and acknow; acknowledge is formed on
analogy of ``knowledge''), an admission that something has been
given or done, a term used in law in various connexions. The
acknowledgment of a debt, if in writing signed by the debtor
or his agent, is sufficient to take it out of the Statutes of
Limitations.  The signature to a will by a testator, if not
made in the presence of two witnesses, may be afterwards
acknowledged in their presence.  The acknowledgment by a
woman married before 1882 of deeds for the conveyance of real
property not her separate property, requires to be made by
her before a judge of the High Court or of a county court or
before a perpetual or special commissioner.  Before such an
acknowledgment can be received, the judge or commissioner is
required to examine her apart from her husband, touching her
knowledge of the deed, and to ascertain whether she freely and
voluntarily consents to it.  An acknowledgment to the right
of the production of deeds of conveyance is an obligation
on the vendor, when he retains any portion of the property
to which the deeds relate, and is entitled to retain the
deeds, to produce them from time to time at the request of
the person to whom the acknowledgment is given, to allow
copies to be made, and to undertake for their safe custody
(Conveyancing Act 1881, s. 9). The term ``acknowledgment''
is, in the United States, applied to the certificate of a
public officer that an instrument was acknowledged before
him to be the deed or act of the person who executed it. .

``Acknowledgment money'' is the sum paid in some parts of England
by copyhold tenants on the death of the lord of the manor.

ACLAND, CHRISTIAN HENRIETTA CAROLINE (1750-1815), usually
called Lady Harriet Acland, was born on the 3rd of January
1750, the daughter of the first earl of Ilchester.  In 1770
she married John Dyke Acland, who as a member of parliament
became a vigorous supporter of Lord North's policy towards
the American colonies, and, entering the British army in
1774, served with Burgoyne's expedition as major in the 20th
regiment of foot.  Lady Hurriet accompanied her husband,
and, when he was wounded at Ticonderoga, nursed him in
his tent at the front.  In the second battle of Saratoga
Major Acland was again badly wounded and subsequently taken
prisoner.  Lady Harriet was determined to be with him, and
underwent great hardship to accomplish her object, proving
herself a courageous and devoted wife.  A story has been
told that being provided with a letter from General Burgoyne
to the American general Gates, she went up the Hudson river
in an open boat to the enemy's lines, arriving late in the
evening.  The American outposts threatened to fire into the
boat if its occupants stirred, and Lady Hnrriet had to wait
eight ``dark and cold hours,'' until the sun rose, when she
at last received permission to join her husband.  Major Acland
died in 1778, and Lady Harriet on the 21st of July 1815.

ACLAND, SIR HENRY WENTWORTH, BART. (1815-1900), English
physician and man of learning, was born near Exeter on the
23rd of August 1815, and was the fourth son of Sir Thomas
Dyke Acland (1787-1871).  Educated at Harrow and at Christ
Church, Oxford, he was elected fellow of All Souls in 1840, and
then studied medicine in London and Edinburgh.  Returning to
Oxford, he was appointed Lee's reader in anatomy at Christ
Church in 1845, and in 1851 Radcliffe librarian and physician
to the Radcliffe infirmary.  Seven years later he became
regius professor of medicine, a post which he retained till
1894.  He was also a curator of the university galleries
and of the Bodleian Library, and from 1858 to 1887 he
represented his university on the General Medical Council,
of which he served as president from 1874 to 1887.  Hn
was created a baronet in 1890, and ten years later, on the
16th of October 1900, he died at his house in Broad Street,
Oxford.  Acland took a leading part in the revival of the
Oxford medical school and in introducing the study of natural
science into the university.  As Lee's reader he began to
form a collection of anatomical and physiological preparations
on the plan of John Hunter, and the establishment of the
Oxford University museum, opened in 1861, as a centre for
the encouragement of the study of science, especially in
relation to medicine, was largely due to his efforts. ``To
Henry Acland,'' said his lifelong friend, John Ruskin,
``physiology was an entrusted gospel of which he was the
solitary preacher to the heathen,'' but on the other hand his
thorough classical training preserved science at Oxford from
too abrupt a severance from the humanities.  In conjunction
with Dean Liddell, he revolutionized the study of art and
archaeology, so that the cultivation of these subjects, for
which, as Ruskin declared, no one at Oxford cared before that
time, began to flourish in the university. Acland was also
interested in questions of public health.  He served on the
royal commission on sanitary laws in England and Wales in
1869, and published a study of the outbreak of cholera at
Oxford in 1854, together with various pamphlets on sanitary
matters.  His memoir on the topography of the Troad, with
panoramic plan (1839), was among the fruits of a cruise which
he made in the Mediterranean for the sake of his health.

ACME (Gr. akme, point), the highest point
attainable; first used as an English word by Ben Jonson.

ACMITE, or AEGIRITE, a mineral of the pyroxene (q.v.)
group, which may be described as a soda-pyroxene, being
essentially a sodium and ferric metasilicate, NAFe(SiO3)2.
In its crystallographic characters it is close to ordinary
pyroxene (augite and diopside), being monoclinic and having
nearly the same angle between the prismatic cleavages.  There
are, however, important differences in the optical characters:
the birefringence of acmite is negative, the pleochroism is
strong and the extinction angle on the plane of symmetry measured
to the vertical axis is small (3 deg. -5 deg. ). (The hardness is
6-6 1/2, and the specific gravity 3.55. Crystals are elongated
in the direction of the vertical axis, and are blackish
green (aegirite) or dark brown (acmite) in colour. Being
isomorphous with augite, crystals intermediate in composition
between augite or diopside and aegirite are not uncommon,
and these are known as aegirine-augite or aegirine-diopside.

Acmite is a characteristic constituent of igneous rocks
rich in soda, such as nepheline-syenites, phonolites, &c.
It was first discovered as slender crystals, sometimes
a foot in length, in the pegmatite veins of the granite
of Rundemyr, near Kongsbeig in Rorway, and was named by
F. Stromeyer in 1821 from the Gr. akme, a point, in
allusion to the pointed terminations of the crystals.
Aegirite (named from Aegir, the Scandinavian sea-god) was
described in 1835 from the elaeolite-syenite of southern
Norway.  Although exhibiting certain varietal differences,
the essential identity of acmite and aegirite has long been
established, but the latter and more recent name is pethaps
in more general use, especially among petrologists.

ACNE, a skin eruption produced by inflammation of the sebaceous
glands and hair follicles, the essential point in the disease
being the plugging of the mouths of the sebaceous follicles
by a ``comedo,'' familiarly known as ``blackhead.'' It is
now generally acknowledged that the cause of this disease is
the organism known as bacillus acnes.  It shows itself in the
form of red pimples or papules, which may become pustular and
be attended with considerable surrounding irritation of the
skin.  This affection is likewise most common in early adult
life, and occurs on the chest and back as well as on the
face, where it may, when of much extent, produce considerable
disfigurement. It is apt to persist for months or even years,
but usually in time disappears entirely, although slight
traces may remain in the form of scars or stains upon the
skin.  Eruptions of this kind are sometimes produced by the
continued internal use of certain drugs, such as the iodide
or bromide of potassium.  In treating this condition the
face should first of all be held over steaming water for
several minutes, and then thoroughly bathed.  The blackheads
should next be removed, not with the finger-nail, but with
an inexpensive little instrument known as the ``comedo
expressor.'' When the more noticeable of the blackheads
have been expressed, the face should be firmly rubbed for
three or four minutes with a lather made from a special
soap composed of sulphur, camphor and balsam of Peru.  Any
lather remaining on the face at the end of this time should
be wiped off with a soft handkerchief.  As this treatment
might give rise to some irritation of the skin, it should be
replaced every fourth night by a simple application of cold
cream.  Of drugs used internally sulphate of calcium, in pill,
1/6 grain three times a day, is a very useful adjunct to the
preceding.  The patient should take plenty of exercise in
the fresh air, a very simple but nourishing diet, and, if
present, constipation and anaemia must be suitably treated.

Rosacea, popularly known as acne rosacea, is a more
severe and troublesome disorder, a true dermatitis with
no relation to the foregoing, and in most cases secondary
to seborrhea of the scalp.  It is characterized by great
redness of the nose and cheeks, accompanied by pustular
enlargements on the surface of the skin, which produce marked
disfigurement.  Although often seen in persons who live too
freely, it is by no means confined to such, but may arise in
connexion with disturbances of the general health, especially
of the function of digestion, and in females with menstrual
disorders.  It is apt to be exceedingly intractable to treatment,
which is here too, as in the preceding form, partly local
and partly constitutional.  Of internal remedies preparations
of iodine and of arsenic are sometimes found of service.

ACOEMETI (Gr. akoimetos, sleepless), an order of Eastern
monks who celebrated the divine service without intermission
day or night.  This was done by dividing the communities into
choirs, which relieved each other by turn in the church.
Their first monastery was established on the Euphrates, in
the beginning of the 5th century, and soon afterwards one
was founded in Constantinople.  Here also, c. 460, was
founded by the consular Studius the famous monastery of the
Studium, which was put in the hands of the Acoemeti and
became their chief house, so that they were sometimes called
Studites.  At Agaunum (St Maurice in the Valais) a monastery
was founded by the Burgundian king Sigismund, in 515, in
which the perpetual office was kept up; but it is doubtful
whether this had any connexion with the Eastern Acoemeti.

The Constantinopolitan Acoemeti took a prominent part
in the Christological controversies of the 5th and 6th
centuries, at first strenuously opposing Acacius, patriarch
of Constantinople, in his attempted compromise with the
monophysites; but afterwards, in Justinian's reign, falling
under ecclesiastical censure for Nestorian tendencies.

See the article in Dictionary of Christian Antiquities; Wetzer und
Welte, Kirchenlexicon (2nd ed.); and Herzog-Hauck, Realencyklopadie
(3rd ed.); also the general histories of the time. (E. C. B.)

ACOLYTE (Gr.akolouthos, follower), the last of the four
minor orders in the Roman Church.  As an office it appears
to be of local origin, and is entirely unknown in the Eastern
Church, with the exception of the Armenians who borrowed
it from the West. Before the council of Nicaea (325) it was
only to be found at Rome and Carthage.  When in 251 Pope
Cornelius, in a letter to Fabius of Antioch, mentions among
the Roman clergy forty-two acolytes, placing them after
the subdeacons and before the other minor officials (see
Eusebius, Hist.  Ecc. lib. v. cap. 43), he gives no
hint that the office was a new one, but speaks of them as
holding an already established position.  Their institution
has therefore to be sought for at an earlier date than his
pontificate.  It is possible that the Liber Pontificalis
refers to the office under the Latin synonym, when it says
of Pope Victor (186--197) that he made sequentes cleros,
a term---sequens---which Pope Gaius (283--293) uses in the
sense of acolyte.  While the office was well known in Rome,
there is nothing to prove that it was also an order through
which, as to-day, every candidate to the priesthood must
pass.  The contrary is a fact proved by many monumental
inscriptions and authentic statements.  Though the office
is found at Carthage, and St Cyprian (200?-258) makes many
references to acolytes, whom he used to carry his letters,
this seems to be the only place in Africa where they were
known. Tertullian, while speaking of readers and exorcists,
says nothing about acolytes; neither does St Augustine.  The
Irish Church did not know them; and in Spain the council of
Toledo (400) makes no mention either of the office or of the
order.  The Statuta Ecclesiae Antiqua (falsely called the
Canons of the Fourth Council of Carthage in 397), a Gallican
collection, originating in the province of Arles at the
beginning of the 6th century, mentions the acolyte, but does
not give, as in the case of the other orders, any form for
the ordination.  The Roman books are silent, and there is
no mention of it in the collection known as the Leonine
Sacramentary; while in the so-called Gelasian Massbook,
which as we have it, is full of Gallican additions made to
St Gregory's reform, there is the same silence, though in
one MS. of the 10th century given by Muratori we find a form
for the ordination of an acolyte.  While there is frequent
mention of the acolyte's office in the Ordines Romani, it
is only in the Ordo VIII. (which is not earlier than the
7th century) that we find the very simple form for admitting
an acolyte to his office.  At the end of the mass the
cleric, clad in chasuble and stole and bearing a linen bag
on one arm, comes before the pope or bishop and receives a
blessing.  There is no collation of power or order but a
simple admission to an office.  The evidence available,
therefore, points to the fact that the acolyte was only a
local office and was not a necessary step or order for every
candidate. In England, though the ecclesiastical organization
came from Rome and was directed by Romans, we find no trace
of such an office or order until the time of Ecgbert of York
(767), the friand of Alcuin and therefore subject to Gallican
influence.  The Pontifical known as Ecgbert's shows that it
was then in use both as an office and as an order, and Aelfric
(1006) in both his pastoral epistle and canons mentions the
acolyte.  The conclusion, then, which seems warranted by
the evidence, is that the acolyte was an office only at
Rome, and, becoming an order in the Gallican Church,
found its way as such into the Roman books at some period
before the fusion of the two rites under Charlemagne.

The duties of the acolyte, as given in the Roman Pontifical,
are identical with those mentioned in the Statuta Ecclesiae
Antiqua of Arles: ``It is the duty of acolytes to carry
the candlesticks, to light the lamps of the church, to
administer wine and water for the Eucharist.'' It might
seem, from the number forty-two mentioned by Pope Cornelius,
that at Rome the acolytes were divided among the seven
ecclesiastical regions of the city; but we have no proof
that, at that date, there were six acolytes attached to each
region.  From the ancient division of the Roman acolytes
into Dalatini, or those in attendance on the pope at the
Lateran palace, Stationarii, or those who served at the
churches where there was a ``station,'' and Regionarii,
or those attached directly to the regiona, it would seem
that the number forty-two was only the actual number then
existing and not an official number.  We get a glimpse of
their duties from the Ordines Romani. When the pope
rode in procession to the station an acolyte, on foot,
preceded him, bearing the holy chrism; and at the church
seven regionary acolytes with candles went before him in the
procession to the altar, while two others, bearing the vessel
that contained a pre-consecrated Host, presented it for his
adoration.  During the mass an acolyte bore the thurible
(Ordo VI.) and three assisted at the washing of the
hands.  At the moment of communion the acolytes received in
linen bags the consecrated Hosts to carry to the assisting
priests.  This office of bearing the sacrament is an ancient
one, and is mentioned in the legend of Tarcisius, the Roman
acolyte, who was martyred on the Appian Way while carrying the
Hosts from the catacombs.  The official dress of the acolyte,
according to Ordo V., was a close-fitting linen garment
(camisia) girt about him, a napkin hanging from the left side,
a white tunic, a stole (orarium) and a chasuble (planeta)
which he took off when he sang on the steps of the ambone.

At the present day, despite the earnest wish of the council
of Trent (Sess. xxiii. cap. 17 d.r.), the acolyte, while
remaining an order, has ceased to be essentially a clerical
office, since the duties are now performed, almost everywhere, by
laymen.  The office has been revived, though unofficially, in
the Church of England, as a result of the Tractarian movement.

See Morin, Commentarius in sacris Ecclesiae ordinationibus
(Antwerp, 1685), ii. p. 209, iii. p. 152; Martene, De Antiquis
Ecclesiae ritibus (Antwerp, 1739), ii. pp. 47 and 86; Mabillon,
Musaeum Italicum II. for the Ordines Romani; Muratori,
Liturgia Romana Vetus; Cabrol, Dictionnaire d'archeologie
chretisnne et de liturgie, vol. i. col. 348-536.-. (E. TN.)

ACOMINATUS (AKOMINATOS), MICHAEL (c. 1140-1220),
Byzantine writer and ecclesiastic, was born at Chonae
(the ancient Colossae).  At an early age he studied at
Constantinople, and about 1175 was appointed archbishop of
Athens.  After the capture of Constantinople by the Franks
and the establishment of the Latin empire (1204), he retired
to the island of Coos, where he died.  He was a versatile
writer, and composed homilies, speeches and poems, which,
with his correspondence, throw considerable light upon the
miserable condition of Attica and Athens at the time.  His
memorial to Alexis III. Angelus on the abuses of Byzantine
administration, the poetical lament over the degeneracy of
Athens and the monodes on his brother Nicetas and Eustathius,
archbishop of Thessalonica, deserve special mention.

Edition of his works by S. Lambros (1879--1880); Migne, Patrologia
Graeca, cxl.; see also A. Ellissen, Michael Akominatos
(1886), containing several pieces with German translation; F.
Gregorovius, Geschichte der Stadt Athen im Mittelalter, i.
(1889); G. Finlay, History of Greece, iv. pp. 133-134 (1877).

His younger brother NICETAS (Niketas), sometimes called
CHONIATES, who accompanied him to Constantinople, took up
politics as a career.  He held several appointments
under the Angelus emperors (amongst them that of ``great
logothete'' or chancellor) and was governor of the ``theme''
of Philippopolis at a critical period.  After the fall of
Constantinople he fled to Nicaea, where he settled at the
court of the emperor Theodorus Lascaris, and devoted himself to
literature.  He died between 1210 and 1220.  His chief work
is his History, in 21 books, of the period from 1180 to
1206.  In spite of its florid and bombastic style, it is of
considerable value as a record (on the whole impartial) of
events of which he was either an eye-witness or had heard at
first hand.  Its most interesting portion is the description
of the capture of Constantinople, which should be read
with Villehardouin's and Paolo Rannusio's works on the same
subject.  The little treatise On the Statues destroyed by thc
Latins (perhaps, as we have it, altered by a later writer) is
of special interest to the archaeologist.  His dogmatic work(
Thesauros 'Orthodoxias, Thesaurus Orthodoxae Fidei),
although it is extant in a complete form in MS., has only
been published in part.  It is one of the chief authorities
for the heresies and heretical writers of the 12th century.

Editions: History, editio princeps, H. Wolf (1557); and in
the Bonn Corpus Scriptorum Hist.  Byz., 1st ed.,Bekker (1835);
Rhetorical Pieces in C. Sathas, Mesaionike Bibliotheke, i.
(1872); Thesaurus in Migne, Patrologia Graeca, cxxxix., cxl.;
see also C. A. Sainte-Beuve, ``Geoffroy de Villehardouin'' in
Causeries du Lundi, ix.; S. Reinach, ``La fin de l'empire grec''
in Esquisses Archeologiques (1888); C. Neumann, Griechische
Geschichtsschreiber im 12. Jahrhundert (1888); Gibbon, Decline
and Fall, ch. lx.; and (for both Michael and Nicetas) C.
Krumbacher, Geschichte der byzantinischen Litteratur (1897).

ACONCAGUA, a small northern province of central Chile,
bounded N. by Coquimbo, E. by Argentina, S. by Santiago and
Valparaiso and W. by the Pacific.  Its area is officially
computed at 5487 sq. m.  Pop. (1895) 113,165; (1902, official
estimate based on civil registry returns) 131,255.  The province
is very mountainous, and is traversed from east to west by
the broad valley of the Aconcagua river.  The climate is hot
and dry, the rainfall being too small to influence climatic
conditions.  The valleys are highly fertile, and where irrigation
is employed large crops are easily raised.  Beyond the limits
of irrigation the country is semi-barren.  Alfalfa and grapes
are the principal products, and considerable attention is given
to the cultivation of other fruits, such as figs, peaches and
melons.  The ``Vale of Quillota,'' through which the railway
passes between Valparaiso and Santiago, is celebrated for its
gardens.  The Aconcagua river rises on the southern slope of
the volcano Aconcagua, flows eastward through a broad valley,
or bay in the mountains, and enters the Pacific 12 m. north of
Valparaiso.  The river has a course of about 200 m., and
its waters irrigate the best and most populous part of the
province.  Two other rivers--the Ligua and Choapa--traverse
the province, the latter forming the northern boundary
line.  The capital is San Felipe, on the Aconcagua river;
it had a population of 11,313 in 1895, and an estimated
population of 11,660 in 1902.  The other chief town is
Santa Rosa de los Andes (est. pop. 6854), which is a
principal station on the Transandine branch of the state
railway.  The only port in the province is Los Vilos, in
lat. 32 deg.  S., from which a railway 40 m. long runs north-east
to the valley of the Choapa.  Another short line connects
Cabildo, in the valley of the Ligua, with the state railway.

ACONCIO, GIACOMO (1492-1566?), pioneer of religious toleration,
was born at Trent, it is said, on the 7th of September 1492.
He was one of the Italians like Peter Martyr and Bernardino
Ochino who repudiated papal doctrine and ultimately found
refuge in England.  Like them, his revolt against Romanism
took an extremer form than Lutheranism, and after a temporary
residence in Switzerland and at Strassburg, he arrived in
England soon after Elizabeth's accession.  He had studied
law and theology, but his profession was that of an engineer,
and in this capacity he found employment with the English
government.  He was granted an annuity of L. 60 on the 27th of
February 1560, and letters of naturalization on the 8th of October
1561 (Cal. State Papers, Dom. Ser., Addenda, 1547--1566, p.
495), and was for some time occupied with draining Plumstead
marshes, for which object various acts of parliament were
passed at this time (Lords' Journals, vol. i., and Commons'
Journals, vol. i., passim). In 1564 he was sent to report
on the fortifications of Berwick (Cal. St. Pap. For Ser.
1564-1565, passim; Acts P.C., 1558-1570, p. 146); his report
is now in thc Record Office (C.S.P. For., 1564-1565, No. 512).

But his real importance depends upon his contribution to the
history of religious toleration.  Before reaching England he
had published a treatise on the methods of investigation, De
Methodo, hoc est, de recte investigandarum tradendarumque
Scientiarum ratione (Basel, 1558, 8vo); and his critical
spirit placed him outside all the recognized religious societies
of his time.  On his arrival in London he had joined the Dutch
Reformed Church in Austin Friars, but he was ``infected with
Anabaptistical and Arian opinions'' and was excluded from the
sacrament by Grindal, bishop of London.  The real nature of his
heterodoxy is revealed in his Stratagemata Satanae, published
in 1565 and translated into various languages.  The ``stratagems
of Satan'' are the dogmatic creeds which rent the Christian
church.  Aconcio sought to find the common denominator of
the various creeds; this was essential doctrine, the rest was
immaterial.  To arrive at this common basis, he had to
reduce dogma to a low level, and his result was generally
repudiated.  Even Selden applied to Aconcio the remark ubi bene,
nil melius; ubi male, nemo pejus. The dedication of such a
work to Queen Elizabeth illustrates the tolerance or religious
laxity during the early years of her reign.  Aconcio found
another patron in the earl of Leicester, and died about 1566.

AUTHORITIES.--Gough's Index to Parker Soc. Publ.;
Strype's Grindal, pp. 62, 66; Bayle's Dictionnaire; G.
Tiraboschi, Storia della lett. italiana (Florence,
1805--1813); Osterreichisches Biogr. Lexikon;
Nouvelle biogr. generale; Dict.  Nat. Biogr. (A. F. P.)

ACONITE (Aconitum), a genus of plants belonging to the
natural order Ranunculaceae, the buttercup family, commonly
known as aconite, monkshood or wolfsbane, and embracing
about 60 species, chiefly natives of the mountainous parts
of the northern hemisphere.  They are distinguished by
having one of the five blue or yellow coloured sepals (the
posterior one) in the form of a helmet; hence the English name
monkshood.  Two of the petals placed under the hood of
the calyx are supported on long stalks, and have a hollow
spur at their apex, containing honey.  They are handsome
plants, the tall stem being crowned by racemes of showy
flowers. Aconitum Napellus, common monkshood, is a doubtful
native of Britain, and is of therapeutic and toxicological
importance.  Its roots have occasionally been mistaken for
horse-radish.  The aconite has a short underground stem, from
which dark-coloured tapering roots descend.  The crown or upper
portion of the root gives rise to new plants.  When put to
the lip, the juice of the aconite root produces a feeling of
numbness and tingling.  The horse-radish root, which belongs
to the natural order Cruciferae, is much longer than that of
the aconite, and it is not tapering; its colour is yellowish,
and the top of the root has the remains of the leaves on it.

Many species of aconite are cultivated in gardens, some
having blue and others yellow flowers. Aconitum lycoctonum,
wolfsbane, is a yellow-flowered species common on the Alps of
Switzerland.  The roots of Aconitum ferox supply the famous
Indian (Nepal) poison called bikh, bish or nabee.  It contains
considerable quantities of the alkaloid pseudaconitine, which
is the most deadly poison known. Aconitum palmatum yields
another of the celebrated bikh poisons.  The root of Aconitum
luridum, of the Himalayas, is said to be as virulent as that
of A. ferox or A. Napellus. As garden plants the aconites
are very ornamental, hardy perennials.  They thrive well in
any ordinary garden soil, and will grow beneath the shade of
trees.  They are easily propagated by divisions of the root
or by seeds; great care should be taken not to leave pieces
of the root about owing to its very poisonous character.

Chemistry.---The active principle of Aconitum Napellus
is the alkaloid aconitine, first examined by P. L. Geiger and
Hesse (Ann., 1834, 7, p. 267), Alder Wright and A. B, Luff
obtained apoaconitine, aconine and benzoic acid by hydrolysis;
while, in 1802, C. Ehrenberg and A. Purfurst (Journ.
Prat.  Chem., 1892, 45, p. 604) observed acetic acid as a
hydrolytic product.  This, and allied alkaloids, have formed
the subject of many investigations by Wyndham Dunstan and
his pupils in England, and by Martin Freund and Paul Beck in
Berlin.  But their constitution is not yet solved, there
even being some divergence of opinion as to their empirical
formulae, Aconitine (C33H45NO13, according to Dunstan;
C34H47NO11, according to Freund) is a crystalline base,
soluble in alcohol, but very sparingly in water; its alcoholic
solution is dextrorotatory, but its salts are laevorotatory.
When heated it loses water and forms pyraconitine.  Hydrolysis
gives acetic acid and benzaconine, the chief constituent of the
alkaloids picraconitine and napelline; further hydrolysis gives
aconine.  Pseudaconitine, obtained from Aconitum ferox,
gives on hydrolysis acetic acid and veratrylpseudaconine, the
latter of which suffers further hydrolysis to veratric acid and
pseudaconine.  Japaconitine, obtained from the Japanese
aconites, known locally as ``kuza-uzu,'' hydrolyses to
japbenzaconine, which further breaks down to benzoic acid and
japaconine.  Other related alkaloids are lycaconitine and
myoctonine which occur in wolfsbane, Aconitum lycoctonum.
The usual test for solutions of aconitine consists in slight
acidulation with acetic acid and addition of potassium
permanganate, which causes the formation of a red crystalline
precipitate.  In 1905, Dunstan and his collaborators discovered
two new aconite alkaloids, indaconitine in ``mohri'' (Aconitum
chasmanthum, Stapf), and bikhaconitine in ``bikh'' (Aconitum
spicatum); he also proposes to classify these alkaloids
according to whether they yield benzoic or veratric acid on
hydrolysis (Jour.  Chem.  Soc., 1905, 87, pp. 1620, 1650).

From the root of Aconitum Napellus are prepared a liniment
and a tincture.  The dose of the latter (Brit.  Pharmacop.)
is of importance as being exceptionally small, for it is
not advisable to give more than at most five drops at a
time.  The official preparation is an ointment which contains
one part of the alkaloid in fifty.  It must be used with
extreme care, and in small quantities, and it must not be
used at all where cuts or cracks are present in the skin.

Pharmacology of Aconite and Aconitine.---Aconite first
stimulates and later paralyses the nerves of pain, touch and
temperature, if applied to the skin, broken or unbroken, or
to a mucous membrane; the initial tingling therefore gives
place to a long-continued anaesthetic action.  Taken internally
aconite acts very notably on the circulation, the respiration
and the nervous system.  The pulse is slowed, the number of
beats per minute being actually reduced, under considerable
doses, to forty, or even thirty, per minute.  The blood-pressure
synchronously falls, and the heart is arrested in diastole.
Immediately before arrest the heart may beat much faster than
normally, though with extreme irregularity, and in the lower
animals the auricles may be observed occasionally to miss
a beat, as in poisoning by veratrine and colchicum.  The
action of aconitine on the circulation is due to an initial
stimulation of the cardio-inhibitory centre in the medulla
oblongata (at the root of the vagus nerves), and later to a
directly toxic influence on the nerve-ganglia and muscular
fibres of the heart itself.  The fall in blood-pressure is not
due to any direct influence on the vessels.  The respiration
becomes slower owing to a paralytic action on the respiratory
centre and, in warm-blooded animals, death is due to this
action, the respiration being arrested before the action
of the heart.  Aconite further depresses the activity of
all nerve-terminals, the sensory being affected before the
motor.  In small doses it therefore tends to relieve pain, if
this be present.  The activity of the spinal cord is similarly
depressed.  The pupil is at first contracted, and afterwards
dilated.  The cerebrum is totally unaffected by aconite,
consciousness and the intelligence remaining normal to the
last.  The antipyretic action which considerable doses of aconite
display is not specific, but is the result of its influence on the
circulation and respiration and of its slight diaphoretic action.

Therapeutics.---The indications for its employment are
limited, but definite.  It is of undoubted value as a local
anodyne in sciatica and neuralgia, especially in ordinary
facial or trigeminal neuralgia.  The best method of application
is by rubbing in a small quantity of the aconitine ointment
until numbness is felt, but the costliness of this preparation
causes the use of the aconite liniment to be commonly resorted
to.  This should be painted on the affected part with a
camel's hair brush dipped in chloroform, which facilitates the
absorption of the alkaloid.  Aconite is indicated for internal
administration whenever it is desirable to depress the action
of the heart in the course of a fever.  Formerly used in every
fever, and even in the septic states that constantly followed
surgical operations in the pre-Listerian epoch, aconite is
now employed only in the earliest stage of the less serious
fevers, such as acute tonsilitis, bronchitis and, notably,
laryngitis.  The extreme pain and rapid swelling of the
vocal cords---with threatened obstruction to the respiration
that characterize acute laryngitis may often be relieved
by the sedative action of this drug upon the circulation.
In order to reduce the pulse to its normal rate in these
cases, without at the same time lessening the power of the
heart, the drug must be given in doses of about two minims
of the tincture every half-hour and then every hour until the
pulse falls to the normal rate.  Thereafter the drug must be
discontinued.  It is probably never right to give aconite in
doses much larger than that named.  There is one condition
of the heart itself in which aconite is sometimes useful.
Whilst absolutely contra-indicated in all cases of valvular
disease, it is of value in cases of cardiac hypertrophy with
over-action.  But the practitioner must be assured that neither
valvular lesion nor degeneration of the myocardium is present.

Toxicology.---In a few minutes after the introduction of
a poisonous dose of aconite, marked symptoms supervene.  The
initial signs of poisoning are referable to the alimentary
canal.  There is a sensation of burning, tingling and numbness
in the mouth, and of burning in the abdomen.  Death usually
supervenes before a numbing effect on the intestine can be
observed.  After about an hour there is severe vomiting.  Much
motor weakness and cutaneous sensations similar to those above
described soon follow.  The pulse and respiration steadily
fail, death occurring from asphyxia.  As in strychnine
poisoning, the patient is conscious and clear-minded to the
last.  The only post-mortem signs are those of asphyxia.  The
treatment is to empty the stomach by tube or by a non-depressant
emetic.  The physiological antidotes are atropine and digitalin or
strophanthin, which should be injected subcutaneously in maximal
doses.  Alcohol, strychnine and warmth must also be employed.

ACONTIUS (Gr. Akontios), in Greek legend, a beautiful
youth of the island of Ceos, the hero of a love-story told
by Callimachus in a poem now lost, which forms the subject of
two of Ovid's Heroides (xx., xxi.).  During the festival of
Artemis at Deles, Acontius saw Cydippe, a well-born Athenian
maiden of whom he was enamoured, sitting in the temple of the
goddess.  He wrote on an apple the words, ``I swear by the sacred
shrine of the goddess that I will marry you,'' and threw it at
her feet.  She picked it up, and mechanically read the words
aloud, which amounted to a solemn undertaking to carry them
out.  Unaware of this, she treated Acontius with contempt;
but, although she was betrothed more than once, she always fell
ill before the wedding took place.  The Delphic oracle at last
declared the cause of her illnesses to be the wrath of the offended
goddess; whereupon her father consented to her marriage with
Acontius (Aristaenetus, Epistolae, i. 10; Antoninus Liberalis,
Metamorphoses, i., tells the story with different names).

ACORN, the fruit of the oak-tree; a word also used, by
analogy with the shape, in nautical language, for a piece of
wood keeping the vane on the mast-head.  The etymology of the
word (earlier akerne, and acharn) is well discussed in the
New English Dictionary. It is derived from a word (Goth.
akran) which meant ``fruit,'' originally ``of the unenclosed
land,'' and so of the most important forest produce, thc
oak.  Chaucer speaks of ``achornes of okes.'' By degrees,
popular etymology connected the word both with ``corn''
and ``oak-horn,'' and the spelling changed accordingly.

ACORUS CALAMUS, sweet-sedge or sweet-flag, a plant of the
natural order Araceae, which shares with the Cuckoo Pint
(Arum) the representation in Britain of that order of
Monocotyledons.  The name is derived from acorus, Gr.
akoros, the classical name for the plant.  It was the
Calamus aromaticus of the medieval druggists and perhaps of
the ancients, though the latter has been referred by some to
the Citron grass, Andropogon Nardus. The spice ``Calamus''
or ``Sweet-cane'' of the Scriptures, one of the ingredients
of the holy anointing oil of the Jews, was perhaps one of the
fragrant species of Andropogon. The plant is a herbaceous
perennial with a long, branched root-stock creeping through
the mud, about  3/4 inch thick, with short joints and large
brownish leaf-scars.  At the ends of the branches are tufts
of flat, sword-like, sweet-scented leaves 3 or 4 ft. long
and about an inch wide, closely arranged in two rows as in
the true Flag (Iris); the tall, flowering stems (scapes),
which very much resemble the leaves, bear an apparently
lateral, blunt, tapering spike of densely packed, very small
flowers.  A long leaf (spathe) borne immediately below the
spike forms an apparent continuation of the scape, though
really a lateral outgrowth from it, the spike of flowers being
terminal.  The plant has a wide distribution, growing in wet
situations in the Himalayas, North America, Siberia and various
parts of Europe, including England, and has been naturalized
in Scotland and Ireland.  Though regarded as a native in most
counties of England at the present day, where it is now found
thoroughly wild on sides of ditches, ponds and rivers, and very
abundantly in some districts, it is probably not indigenous.
It seems to have been spread in western and central Europe
from about the end of the 16th century by means of botanic
gardens.  The botanist Clusius (Charles de l'Escluse or
Lecluse, 1526-1609) first cultivated it at Vienna from a
root received from Asia Minor in 1574, and distributed it
to other botanists in central and western Europe, and it was
probably introduced into England about 1596 by the herbalist
Gerard.  It is very readily propagated by means of its branching
root-stock.  It has an agreeable odour, and has been used
medicinally.  The starchy matter contained in its rhizome is
associated with a fragrant oil, and it is used as hair-powder.
Sir J. E. Smith (Eng. Flora, ii. 158, 2nd ed., 1828) mentions
it as a popular remedy in Norfolk for ague.  In India it
is used as an insectifuge, and is administered in infantile
diarrhoea.  It is an ingredient in pot-pourri, is employed
for flavouring beer and is chewed to clear the voice; and its
volatile oil is employed by makers of snuff and aromatic vinegar.
The rhizome of Acorus Calamus is sometimes adulterated with
that of Iris Pseudacorus, which, however, is distinguishable
by its lack of odour, a stringent taste and dark colour.

ACOSTA, JOSE DE (1539?--1600), Spanish author, was born at
Medina del Campo about the year 1539.  He joined the Jesuits
in 1551, and in 1571 was sent as a missionary to Peru; he
acted as provincial of his order from 1576 to 1581, was
appointed theological adviser to the council of Lima in 1582,
and in 1583 published a catechism in Quichua and Aymara--the
first book printed in Peru.  Returning to Spain in 1587, and
placing himself at the head of the opposition to Acquaviva,
Acosta was imprisoned in 1592--1593; on his submission in
1594 he became superior of the Jesuits at Valladolid, and
in 1598 rector of the Jesuit college at Salamanca, where
he died on the 15th of February 1600.  His treatise De
natura novi orbis libri duo (Salamanca, 1588-1589) may be
regarded as the preliminary draft of his celebrated Historia
natural y moral de las Indias (Seville, 1590) which was
speedily translated into Italian (1596), French (1597), Dutch
(1598), German (1601), Latin (1602) and English (1604) The
Historia is in three sections: books I. and II. deal with
generalities; books III. and IV. with the physical geography
and natural history of Mexico and Peru; books V., VI. and
VII. with the religious and political institutions of the
aborigines.  Apart from his sophistical defence of Spanish
colonial policy, Acosta deserves high praise as an acute and
diligent observer whose numerous new and valuable data are
set forth in a vivid style.  Among his other publications
are De procuranda salute Indorum libri sex (Salamanca,
1588), De Christo revelato libri novem (Rome, 1590), De
temporibus novissimis libri quatuor (Rome, 1590), and three
volumes of sermons issued respectively in 1596, 1597 and 1599.

AUTHORITIES.---Jose R. Carricido, El P. Jose de Acosta
y su importancia en La literatura cientifica espanola
(Madrid, 1899); C. Sommervogel, Bibliotheque de La Compagnie
de Jesus, Premiere Partie (Brussels and Paris, 1890),
vol. i., col. 31-42; and Edward Grimston's translation of
the Historia reprinted (1880) for the Hakluyt Society with
introduction and notes by Sir Clements R. Markham. (J. F.-K.)

ACOSTA, URIEL (d. 1647), a Portuguese Jew of noble family,
was born at Oporto towards the close of the 16th century.  His
father being a convert to Christianity, Uriel was brought up
in the Roman Catholic faith, and strictly observed the rites
of the church till the course of his inquiries led him, after
much painful doubt, to abandon the religion of his youth for
Judaism.  Passing over to Amsterdam, he was received into the
synagogue, having his name changed from Gabriel to Uriel.
His wayward disposition found, however, no satisfaction in
the Jewish fold.  He came into conflict with the authorities
of the synagogue and was excommunicated.  Unlike Spinoza (who
was about fifteen at the time of Acosta's death), Acosta was
not strong enough to stand alone.  Wearied by his melancholy
isolation, he was driven to seek a return to the Jewish
communion.  Having recanted his heresies, he was readmitted
after an excommunication of fifteen years, but was soon
excommunicated a second time.  After seven years of exclusion,
he once more sought admission, and, on passing through a
humiliating penance, was again received.  His vacillating
autobiography, Exemplar Humanae Vitae, was published
with a ``refutation'' by Limborch in 1687, and republished in
1847.  In this brief work Acosta declares his opposition both
to Christianity and Judaism, though he speaks with the more
bitterness of the latter religion.  The only authority which
he admits is the lex naturae. Acosta was not an original
thinker, but he stands in the direct line of the rational
Deists.  His history forms the subject of a tale and of
a tragedy by Gutzkow.  Acosta committed suicide in 1647.
The significance of his career has been much exaggerated.

ACOTYLEDONES, the name given by Antoine Laurent de Jussieu
in 1789 to the lowest class in his Natural System of Botany,
embracing flowerless plants, such as ferns, lycopods,
horse-tails, mosses, liverworts, sea-weeds, lichens and
fungi.  The name is derived from the absence of a seed-leaf or
cotyledon.  Flowering plants bear a seed containing an embryo,
with usually one or two cotyledons, or seed-leaves; while
in flowerless plants there is no seed and therefore no true
cotyledon.  The term is synonymous with Cryptogams, by
which it was replaced in later systems of classification.

ACOUSTICS (from the Gr. akouein to hear), a title
frequently given to the science of sound, that is, to the
description and theory of the phenomena which give rise to
the sensation of sound (q.v.).  The term ``acoustics''
might, however, with advantage be reserved for the aspect of
the subject more immediately connected with hearing.  Thus we
may speak appropriately of the acoustic quality of a room or
hall, describing it as good or bad acoustically, according
as speaking is heard in it easily or with difficulty.  When
a room has bad acoustic quality we can almost always assign
the fault to large smooth surfaces on the walls, floor or
ceiling, which reflect or echo the voice of the speaker so that
the direct waves sent out by him at any instant are received
by a hearer with the waves sent out previously and reflected
at these smooth surfaces.  The syllables overlap, and the
hearing is confused.  The acoustic quality of a room may be
improved by breaking up the smooth surfaces by curtains or
by arrangement of furniture.  The echo is then broken up into
small waves, none of which may be sufficiently distinct to
interfere with the direct voice.  Sometimes a sounding-board
over the head of a speaker improves the hearing probably by
preventing echo from a smooth wall behind him.  A large bare
floor is undoubtedly bad for acoustics, for when a room is
filled by an audience the hearing is much improved Wires are
frequently stretched across a room overhead, probably with
the idea that they will prevent the voice from reaching the
roof and being reflected there, but there is no reason to
suppose that they are efficient.  The only cure appears to
consist in breaking up the reflecting surfaces so that the
reflexion shall be much less regular and distinct.  Probably
drapery assists by absorbing the sound to some extent, and
thus it lessens the echo besides breaking it up. (J. H. P.)

ACQUI, a city and episcopal see of Piedmont, Italy, in the
province of Alessandria; from the town of that name it is 21
m.  S.S.W. by rail.  Pop. (1901) 13,786.  Its warm sulphur
springs are still resorted to; under the name of Aquae
Statiellae they were famous in Roman times, and Paulus Diaconus
and Liutprand speak of the ancient bath establishment.  In
the neighbourhood of the town are remains of the aqueduct
which supplied it.  The place was connected by road with Alba
Pompeia and Augusta Taurinorum.  The tribe of the Statielli, to
whom the district belonged, had joined the Romans at an early
period, but was attacked in 173 and in part transferred to the
north of the Po. The town possesses a fine Gothic cathedral.

ACRE, or AQUIRY, a river of Brazil and principal tributary
of the Purus, rising on the Bolivian frontier and flowing
easterly and northerly to a junction with the Purus at 8 deg.
45' S. lat.  The name is also applied to a district situated
on the same river and on the former (1867) boundary line
between Bolivia and Brazil.  The region, which abounds in
valuable rubber forests, was settled by Bolivians between
1870 and 1878, but was invaded by Brazilian rubber collectors
during the next decade and became tributary to the rubber
markets of Manaos and Para.  In 1899 the Bolivian government
established a custom-house at Puerto Alonso, on the Acre
river, for the collection of export duties on rubber, which
precipitated a conflict with the Brazilian settlers and finally
brought about a boundary dispute between the two republics.
In July 1899 the Acreanos declared their independence and
set up a republic of their own, but in the following March
they were reduced to submission by Brazil.  Various disorders
followed until Brazil decided to occupy Puerto Alonso with a
military force.  The boundary dispute was finally settled at
Petropolis on the 17th of November 1903 through the purchase
by Brazil of the rubber-producing territory south to about
the 11th parallel, estimated at more than 60,000 sq. m.

ACRE, Akka, or ST JEAN D'ACRE, the chief town of a
governmental district of Palestine which includes Haifa,
Nazareth and Tiberias.  It stands on a low promontory at the
northern extremity of the Bay of Acre, 80 m.  N. N.W. from
Jerusalem, and 25 m.  S. of Tyre.  The population is about
11,000; 8000 being Moslems, the remainder Christians, Jews,
&c. It was long regarded as the ``Key of Palestine,'' on
account of its commanding position on the shore of the broad
plain that joins the inland plain of Esdraelon, and so affords
the easiest entrance to the interior of the country.  But
trade is now passing over to Haifa, at the south side of the
bay, as its harbour offers a safer roadstead, and is a regular
calling.place for steamers.  Business, rapidly declining, is
still carried on in wheat, maize, oil, sesame, &c., in the town
market.  There are few buildings of interest, owing to the
frequent destructions the town has undergone.  The wall,
which is now ruinous and has but one gate, dates from the
crusaders: the mosque was built by Jezzar Pasha (d. 1804)
from materials taken from Caesarea Palaestina: his tomb is
within.  Acre is the seat of the head of the Babist religion.

History.--Few towns have had a more chequered or calamitous
history.  Of great antiquity, it is probably to be identified
with the Aak of the tribute-lists of Tethmosis (Thothmes)
III (c. 1500 B.C.), and it is certainly the Akka
of the Tell el-Amarna correspondence.  To the Hebrews it
was known as Acco (Revised Version spelling), but it is
mentioned only once in the Old Testament, namely Judges i.
31, as one of the places from which the Israelites did not
drive out the Canaanite inhabitants.  Theoretically it was
in the territory of the tribe of Asher, and Josephus assigns
it by name to the district of one of Solomon's provincial
governors.  Throughout the period of Hebrew domination, however,
its political connexions were always with Syria rather than
with Palestine proper: thus, about 725 B.C. it joined Sidon
and Tyre in a revolt against Shalmaneser IV. It had a stormy
experience during the three centuries preceding the Christian
era.  The Greek historians name it Ake (Josephus calls
it also Akre); but the name was changed to Ptolemais,
probably by Ptolemy Soter, after the partition of the kingdom of
Alexander.  Strabo refers to the city as once a rendezvous for
the Persians in their expeditions against Egypt.  About 165
B.C. Simon Maccabaeus defeated the Syrians in many battles
in Galilee, and drove them into Ptolemais.  About 153 B.C.
Alexander Balas, son of Antiochus Epiphanes, contesting the
Syrian crown with Demetrius, seized the city, which opened its
gates to him.  Demetrius offered many bribes to the Maccabees
to obtain Jewish support against his rival, including the
revenues of Ptolemais for the benefit of the Temple, but in
vain.  Jonathan threw in his lot with Alexander, and in
150 B.C. he was received by him with great honour in
Ptolemais.  Some years later, however, Tryphon, an officer
of the Syrians, who had grown suspicious of the Maccabees,
enticed Jonathan into Ptolemais and there treacherously took him
prisoner.  The city was also assaulted and captured by Alexander
Jannaeus, by Cleopatra and by Tigranes.  Here Herod built a
gymnasium, and here the Jews met Petronius, sent to set up
statues of the emperor in the Temple, and persuaded him to turn
back.  St Paul spent a day in Ptolemais.  The Arabs captured
the city in A.D. 638, and lost it to the crusaders in
1110.  The latter made the town their chief port in
Palestine.  It was re-taken by Saladin in 1187, besieged
by Guy de Lusignan in 1189 (see below), and again captured
by Richard Coeur de Lion in 1191.  In 1229 it was placed
under the control of the knights of St John (whence one of
its alternative names), but finally lost by the Franks in
1291.  The Turks under Sultan Selim I. captured the city
in 1517, after which it fell into almost total decay.
Maundrell in 1697 found it a complete ruin, save for a khan
occupied by some French merchants, a mosque and a few poor
cottages.  Towards the end of the 18th century it seems to
have revived under the comparatively beneficent rule of Dhahar
el-Amir, the local sheikh: his successor, Jezzar Pasha,
governor of Damascus, improved and fortified it, but by heavy
imposts secured for himself all the benefits derived from his
improvements.  About 1780 Jezzar peremptorily banished the
French trading colony, in spite of protests from the French
government, and refused to receive a consul.  In 1799 Napoleon,
in pursuance of his scheme for raising a Syrian rebellion
against Turkish domination, appeared before Acre, but after
a siege of two months (March--May) was repulsed by the
Turks, aided by Sir W. Sidney Smith and a force of British
sailors.  Jezzar was succeeded on his death by his son Suleiman,
under whose milder rule the town advanced in prosperity till
1831, when Ibrahim Pasha besieged and reduced the town and
destroyed its buildings.  On the 4th of November 1840 it
was bombarded by the allied British, Austrian and French
squadrons, and in the following year restored to Turkish rule.

Battle of Acre.---The battle of 1189, fought on the ground
to the east of Acre, affords a good example of battles of the
Crusades.  The crusading army under Guy of Lusignan, king
of Jerusalem, which was besieging Acre, gave battle on the
4th of October 1189 to the relieving army which Saladin had
collected.  The Christian army consisted of the feudatories
of the kingdom of Jerusalem, numerous small contingents of
European crusaders and the military orders, and contingents
from Egypt, Turkestan, Syria and Mesopotamia fought under
Saladin.  The Saracens lay in a semicircle east of the town
facing inwards towards Acre.  The Christians opposed them
with crossbowmen in first line and the heavy cavalry in
second.  At Arsuf the Christians fought coherently; here
the battle began with a disjointed combat between the
Templars and Saladin's right wing.  The crusaders were so far
successful that the enemy had to send up reinforcements from
other parts of the field.  Thus the steady advance of the
Christian centre against Saladin's own corps, in which the
crossbows prepared the way for the charge of the men-at-arms,
met with no great resistance.  But the victors scattered to
plunder.  Sajadin rallied his men, and, when the Christians
began to retire with their booty, let loose his light horse
upon them.  No connected resistance was offered, and the
Turks slaughtered the fugitives until checked by the fresh
troops of the Christian right wing.  Into this fight Guy's
reserve, charged with holding back the Saracens in Acre, was
also drawn, and, thus freed, 5000 men sallied out from the
town to the northward; uniting with the Saracen right wing,
they fell upon the Templars, who suffered severely in their
retreat.  In the end the crusaders repulsed the relieving
army, but only at the cost of 7000 men. (R. A. S. M.)

ACRE, a land measure used by English-speaking races.  Derived
from the Old Eng. acer and cognate with the Lat. ager, Gr.
agros, Sans. ajras, it has retained its original meaning
``open country,'' in such phrases as ``God's acre,'' or a
churchyard, ``broad acres,'' &c. As a measure of land, it was
first defined as the amount a yoke of oxen could plough in a
day; statutory values were enacted in England by acts of Edward
I., Edward III., Henry VIII. and George IV., and the Weights
and Measures Act 1878 now defines it as containing 4840 sq.
yds.  In addition to this ``statute'' or ``imperial acre,''
other ``acres'' are still, though rarely, used in Scotland,
Ireland, Wales and certain English counties.  The Scottish
acre contains 6150.4 sq. yds.; the Irish acre 7840 sq. yds.; in
Wales, the land measures erw (4320 sq. yds.), stang (3240
sq. yds.) and paladr are called ``acres''; the Leicestershire
acre (2308 3/4 sq. yds.), Westmoreland acre (6760 sq. yds.) and
Cheshire acre (10,240 sq. yds) are examples of local values.

ACRIDINE, C13H9N, in chemistry, a heterocyclic ring
compound found in crude coal-tar anthracene.  It may be
separated by shaking out with dilute sulphuric acid, and
then precipitating the sulphuric acid solution with potassium
bichromate, the resulting acridine bichromate being decomposed
by ammonia.  It was first isolated in 1890 by C. Graebe
and H. Caro (Ann., 1871, 158, p. 265).  Many synthetic
processes are known for the production of acridine and its
derivatives.  A. Bernthsen (Ann., 1884, 224, p. 1) condensed
diphenylamine with fatty acids, in the presence of zinc
chloride.  Formic acid yields acridine, and the higher homologues
give derivatives substituted at the meso carbon atom,


FIG.

Acridine may also be obtained by passing the vapour of
phenylortho-toluidine through a red-hot tube (C. Graebe, Ber.,
1884, 17, p. 1370); by condensing diphenylamine with chloroform,
in presence of aluminium chloride (O. Fischer, Ber., 1884,
17, p. 102); by passing the vapours of orthoaminodiphenylmethane
over heated litharge (O. Fischer); by heating salicylic
aldehyde with aniline and zinc chloride to 260 deg.  C. (R.
Mohlau, Ber., 1886, 19, p. 2452); and by distilling acridone
over zinc dust (C. Graebe, Ber., 1892, 25, p. 1735).

Acridine and its homologues are very stable compounds of feebly
basic character.  They combine readily with the alkyl iodides
to form alkyl acridinium iodides, which are readily transformed
by the action of alkaline potassium ferricyanide to N-alkyl
acridones.  Acridine crystallizes in needles which melt at
110 deg.  C. It is characterized by its irritating action on
the skin, and by the blue fluorescence shown by solutions
of its salts.  On oxidation with potassium permanganate it
yields acridinic acid (quinoline -a-b-dicarboxylic acid)
C9H5N(COOH)2.  Numerous derivatives of acridine are known
and may be prepared by methods analogous to those used for
the formation of the parent base.  For the preparation of
the naphthacridines, see F.Ullmann, German patents 117472,
118439, 127586, 128754, and also Ber., 1902, 35, pp. 316,
2670.  Phenyl-acridine is the parent base of chrysaniline,
which is the chief constituent of the dyestuff phosphine (a
bye-product in the manufacture of rosaniline).  Chrysaniline
(diamino-phenylacridine) forms red-coloured salts, which dye
silk and wool a fine yellow; and the solutions of the salts
are characterized by their fine yellowish-green fluorescence.
It was synthesized by O. Fischer and G. Koerner (Ber.,
1884, 17, p. 203) by condensing ortho-nitrobenzaldehyde with
aniline, the resulting ortho-nitro-para-diamino-triphenylmethane
being reduced to the corresponding orthoamino compound, which
on oxidation yields chrysaniline.  Benzoflavin, an isomer of
chrysaniline, is also a dye-stuff, and has been prepared by
K. Oehler (English Patent9614) from meta-phenylenediamine
and benzaldehyde.  These substances condense to form
tetra-aminotriphenylmethane, which, on heating with acids, loses
ammonia and yields diaminodihydrophenylacridine, from which
benzoflavin is obtained by oxidation.  It is a yellow powder,
soluble in hot water.  The formulae of these substances are:--

FIG.


ACRO (or ACRON), HELENIUS, Roman grammarian and
commentator, probably flourished at the end of the 2nd century
A.D. He wrote commentaries on Terence and perhaps Persius.
A collection of scholia on Horace, originally anonymous in
the earlier MSS., and on the whole not of great value, was
wrongly attributed to him at a much later date, probably
during the 15th century.  It has been published by Pauly (1861)
and Hauthal (1866), together with the other Horace scholia.

See Pseudoacronis Scholia in Horatium
Vetustiora, ed.  O. Keller (1902-1904).

ACROBAT (Gr. akrobatein, to walk on tiptoe), originally a
rope-dancer; the word is now used generally to cover professional
performers on the trapeze, &c., contortionists, balancers and
tumblers.  Evidence exists that there were very skilful
performers on the tight-rope (funambuli) among the ancient
Romans.  Modern rope-walkers (e.g. Blondin) or wire-dancers
generally use a pole, loaded at the ends, or some such
assistance in balancing, and by shifting this are enabled
to maintain, or readily to recover, their equilibrium.

ACROGENAE (``growing at the apex''), an obsolete botanical
term, originally applied to the higher Cryptogams (mosses and
ferns), which were erroneously distinguished from the lower
(Algae and Fungi) by apical growth of the stem.  The lower
Cryptogams were contrasted as Amphigenae (``growing all
over''), a misnomer, as apical growth is common among them.

ACROLITHS (Gr. akrolithoi, i.e. ending in stone), statues
of a transition period in the history of plastic art, in which
the trunk of the figure was of wood, and the head, hands and
feet of marble.  The wood was concealed either by gilding
or, more commonly, by drapery, and the marble parts alone were
exposed.  Acroliths are frequently mentioned by Pausanias, the
best known specimen being the Athene Areia of the Plataeans.

ACROMEGALY, the name given to a disease characterized by
a true hypertrophy (an overgrowth involving both bony and
soft parts) of the terminal parts of the body, especially of
the face and extremities (Gr. akron, point, and megas,
large).  It is more frequent in the female sex, between the
ages of 25 and 40. Its causation is generally associated
with disturbances in the pituitary gland, and an extract
of this body has been tried in the treatment, as one of
the recent developments in organotherapeutics; thyroid
extract has also been used, but without marked success,
On the apparent analogy of acromegaly with myxoedema.

ACRON, a Greek physician, born at Agrigentum in Sicily, was
contemporary with Empedocles, and must therefore have lived
in the 5th century before Christ.  The successful measure of
lighting large fires, and purifying the air with perfumes,
to put a stop to the plague in Athens (430 B.C.), is said
to have originated with him; but this has been questioned
on chronological grounds.  Suidas gives the titles of
several medical works written by him in the Doric dialect.

ACROPOLIS (Gr. akros, top, polis, city), literally
the upper part of a town.  For purposes of defence early
settlers naturally chose elevated ground, frequently a hill
with precipitous sides, and these early citadels became in many
parts of the world the nuclei of large cities which grew up
on the surrounding lower ground.  The word Acropolis, though
Greek in origin and associated primarily with Greek towns
(Athens, Argos, Thebes, Corinth), may be applied generically
to all such citadels (Rome, Jerusalem, many in Asia Minor,
or even Castle Hill at Edinburgh).  The most famous is that
of Athens, which, by reason of its historical associations
and the famous buildings erected upon it, is generally known
without qualification as the Acropolis (see ATHENS).

ACROPOLITA (AKROPOLITES), GEORGE (1217-1282),
Byzantine historian and statesman, was born at Constantinople.
At an early age he was sent by his father to the court of
John Ducas Batatzes (Vatatzes), emperor of Nicaea, by whom
and by his successors (Theodorus II. Lascaris and Michael
VIII.  Palaeologus) he was entrusted with important state
missions.  The office of ``great logothete'' or chancellor
was bestowed upon him in 1244.  As commander in the field
in 1257 against Michael Angelus, despot of Epirus, he showed
little military capacity.  He was captured and kept for
two years in prison, from which he was released by Michael
Palaeologus.  Acropolita's most important political task
was that of effecting a reconciliation between the Greek and
Latin Churches, to which he had been formerly opposed.  In
1273 he was sent to Pope Gregory X., and in the following
year, at the council of Lyons, in the emperor's name he
recognized the spiritual supremacy of Rome.  In 1282 he was
sent on an embassy to John II, emperor of Trebizond, and
died in the same year soon after his return.  His historical
work (Xronike Supsgrafe, Annales) embraces the period
from the capture of Constantinople by the Latins (1204) to
its recovery by Michael Palaeologus (1261), thus forming a
continuation of the work of Nicetas Acominatus.  It is valuable
as written by a contemporary, whose official position as great
logothete, military commander and confidential ambassador
afforded him frequent opportunities of observing the course of
events.  Acropolita is considered a trustworthy authority as
far as the statement of facts is concerned, and he is easy to
understand, although he exhibits special carelessness in the
construction of his sentences.  He was also the author of
several shorter works, amongst them being a funeral oration on
John Batatzes, an epitaph on his wife Eirene and a panegyric
of Theodorus II. Lascaris of Nicaea.  While a prisoner
at Epirus he wrote two treatises on the procession of the
Holy Ghost ('Ekporeusis, Processio Spiritus Sancti).

Editio princeps by Leo Allatius (1651), with the editor's
famous teatise De Georgiis eorumque Scriptis; editions in
the Bonn Corpus Scriptoruin Hist.  Byz., by I. Bekker
(1836), and Migne, Patrologia Graeca, cxl.; in the
Teubner series by A. Heisenberg (1903), the second volume of
which contains a full life, with bibliography; see also C.
Krumbacher, Geschichte der byzantinischen Litteratur (1897).

ACROSTIC (Gr. akros, at the end, and stichos, line
or verse), a short verse composition, so constructed that
the initial letters of the lines, taken consecutively, form
words.  The fancy for writing acrostics is of great antiquity,
having been common among the Greeks of the Alexandrine
period, as well as with the Latin writers since Ennius and
Plautus, many of the arguments of whose plays were written
with acrostics on their respective titles.  One of the most
remarkable acrostics was contained in the verses cited by
Lactantius and Eusebius in the 4th century, and attributed to
the Erythraean sibyl, the initial letters of which form the
words 'Insous Arist.os Theou uios sozer: ``Jesus Christ,
the Son of God, the Saviour.'' The initials of the shorter
form of this again make up the word ichthbs (fish), to which
a mystical meaning has been attached (Augustine, De Civitale
Dei, 18, 23), thus constituting another kind of acrostic.

The monks of the middle ages, who wrote in Latin, were fond
of acrostics, as well as the poets of the Middle High German
period, notably Gottfried of Strassburg and Rudolph of
Ems. The great poets of the Italian renaissance, among them
Boccaccio, indulged in them, as did also the early Slavic
writers.  Sir John Davies (1569-1626) wrote twenty-six
elegant Hymns to Astraea, each an acrostic on ``Elisabetha
Regina''; and Mistress Mary Fage, in Fame's Roule,
1637, commemorated 420 celebrities of her time in acrostic
verses.  The same trick of composition is often to be met
with in the writings of more recent versifiers.  Sometimes
the lines are so combined that the final letters as well as
the initials are significant.  Edgar Allan Poe worked two
names---one of them that of Frances Sargent Osgood--into
verses in such a way that the letters of the names corresponded
to the first letter of the first line, the second letter
of the second, the third letter of the third, and so on.

Acrostic verse has always been held in slight estimation
from a literary standpoint.  Dr Samuel Butler says, in his
``Character of a Small Poet,'' ``He uses to lay the outsides
of his verses even, like a bricklayer, by a line of rhyme
and acrostic, and fill the middle with rubbish.'' Addison
(Spectator, No. 60) found it impossible to decide whether
the inventor of the anagram or the acrostic were the greater
blockhead; and, in describing the latter, says, ``I have seen
some of them where the verses have not only been edged by a
name at each extremity, but have had the same name running
down like a seam through the middle of the poem.'' And Dryden,
in Mac Flecknoe, scornfully assigned Shadwell the rule


              Some peaceful province in acrostic land.


The name acrostic is also applied to alphabetical or ``abecedarian''
verses.  Of these we have instances in the Hebrew psalms
(e.g. Ps. xxv. and xxxiv.), where successive verses begin
with the letters of the alphabet in their order.  The structure
of Ps. cxix. is still more elaborate, each of the verses of
each of the twenty-two parts commencing with the letter which
stands at the head of the part in our English translation.

At one period much religious verse was written in a form
imitative of this alphabetical method, possibly as an aid to the
memory.  The term acrostic is also applied to the formation
of words from the initial letters of other words. 'Ichthbs,
referred to above, is an illustration of this.  So also is
the word ``Cabal,'' which, though it was in use before, with
a similar meaning, has, from the time of Charles II., been
associated with a particular ministry, from the accident of its
being composed of Clifford, Ashley, Buckingham, Arlington and
Lauderdale.  Akin to this are the names by which the Jews
designated their Rabbis; thus Rabbi Moses ben Maimon (better
known as Maimonides) was styled ``Rambam,'' from the initials
R.M.B.M.; Rabbi David Kimchi (R.D.K.), ``Radak,'' &c.

Double acrostics are such as are so constructed, that not
only initial letters of the lines, but also the middle or last
letters, form words.  For example:---1.  By Apollo was my
first made. 2. A shoemaker's tool. 3. An Italian patriot. 4. A
tropical fruit.  The initials and finals, read downwards, give
the name of a writer and his nom de plume. Answer: Lamb,


 1. L   yr  E
 2. A   w   L
 3. M azzin I
 4. B anan  A


ACROTERIUM (Gr. akroterion the summit or vertex), in
architecture, a statue or ornament of any kind placed on
the apex of a pediment.  The term is often restricted to the
plinth, which forms the podium merely for the acroterium.

ACT (Lat. actus, actum), something done, primarily a voluntary
deed or performance, though any accomplished fact is often
included.  The signification of the word varies according to
the sense in which it is employed.  It is often synonymous with
``statute'' (see ACT OF PARLIAMENT). It may also refer to the
result of the vote or deliberation of any legislature, the decision
of a court of justice or magistrate, in which sense records,
decrees, sentences, reports, certificates, &c., are called acts.

In law it means any instrument in writing, for declaring or
justifying the truth of a bargain or transaction, as: ``I
deliver this as my act and deed.'' The origin of the legal use
of the word ``act'' is in the acta of the Roman magistrates
or people, of their courts of law, or of the senate, meaning
(1) what was done before the magistrates, the people or
the senate; (2) the records of such public proceedings.

In connexion with other words ``act'' is employed in many
phrases, e.g. act of God, any event, such as the sudden,
violent or overwhelming occurrence of natural forces, which
cannot be foreseen or provided against.  This is a good
defence to a suit for non-performance of a contract. Act of
honour denotes the acceptance by a third party of a protested
bill of exchange for the honour of any party thereto. Act
of grace denotes the granting of some special privilege.

In universities, the presenting and publicly maintaining a
thesis by a candidate for a degree, to show his proficiency,
is an act. ``The Act'' at Oxford, up to 1856 when it was
abolished, was the ceremony held early in July for this purpose,
and the expressions ``Act Sunday,'' ``Act Term'' still survive.

In dramatic literature, act signifies one of those parts
into which a play is divided to mark the change of time
or place, and to give a respite to the actors and to the
audience.  In Greek plays there are no separate acts, the
unities being strictly observed, and the action being continuous
from beginning to end.  If the principal actors left the
stage the chorus took up the argument, and contributed an
integral part of the play, though chiefly in the form of
comment upon the action.  When necessary, another droma,
which is etymologically the same as an act, carried on the
history to a later time or in a different place, and thus we
have the Greek trilogies or groups of three dramas, in which
the same characters reappear.  The Roman poets first adopted
the division into acts, and suspended the stage business in
the intervals between them.  Their number was usually five,
and the rule was at last laid down by Horace in the Ars


     Neve minor, neu sit quinto productior actu
     Fabula, quae posci vult, et spectata reponi.
     ``If you would have your play deserve success,
     Give it five acts complete, nor more nor less.'' (Francis.)


On the revival of letters this rule was almost universally
observed by dramatists, and that there is an inherent convenience
and fitness in the number five is evident from the fact that
Shakespeare, who refused to be trammelled by merely arbitrary
rules, adopts it in all his plays.  Some critics have laid down
rules as to the part each act should sustain in the development
of the plot, but these are not essential, and are by no means
universally recognized.  In comedy the rule as to the number
of acts has not been so strictly adhered to as in tragedy, a
division into two acts or three acts being quite usual since
the time of Moliere, who first introduced it.  It may be well
to mention here Milton's Samson Agonistes as a specimen in
English literature of a dramatic work founded on a purely Greek
model, in which, consequently, there is no division into acts.

For ``acting,'' as the art and theory of dramatic representation (or
histrionics, from Lat. histrio, an actor), see the article DRAMA.

ACTA DIURNA (Lat. acta, public acts or records; diurnius,
daily, from dies), called also Acta Fopuli, Acta Publica
and simply Acta or Diurna, in ancient Rome a sort of
daily gazette, containing an officially authorized narrative
of noteworthy eventsat Rome.  Its contents were partly
official (court news, decrees of the emperor, senate and
magistrates), partly private (notices of births, marriages and
deaths).  Thus to some extent it filled the place of the
modern newspaper (q.v.).  The origin of the Acta is
attributed to Julius Caesar, who first ordered the keeping
and publishing of the acts of the people by public officers
(59 B.C.; Suetonius, Caesar, 20). The Acta were drawn up
from day to day, and exposed in a public place on a whitened
board (see ALBUM).  After remaining there for a reasonable
time they were taken down and preserved with other public
documents, so that they might be available for purposes of
research.  The Acta differed from the Annals (which were
discontinued in 133 B.C.) in that only the greater and
more important matters were given in the latter, while in the
former things of less note were recorded.  Their publication
continued till the transference of the seat of the empire to
Constantinople.  There are no genuine fragments extant.

Leclerc, Des Journaux chez les Romains (1838); Renssen, De
Diurnis aliisque Romanorum Actis (1857); Hubner, De Senatus
Populique Romani Actis (1860); Gaston Boissier, Tacitus and other
Roman Studies (Eng. trans., W. G. Hutchison, 1906), pp. 197-229.

ACTAEON, son of Aristaeus and Autonoe, a famous Theban hero
and hunter, trained by the centaur Cheiron.  According to the
story told by Ovid (Metam. iii. 131; see also Apollod iii.
4), having accidentally seen Artemis (Diana) on Mount Cithaeron
while she was bathing, he was changed by her into a stag, and
pursued and killed by his fifty hounds.  His statue was often
set up on rocks and mountains as a protection against excessive
heat.  The myth itself probably represents the destruction
of vegetation during the fifty dog-days.  Aeschylus and other
tragic poets made use of the story, which was a favourite
subject in ancient works of art.  There is a well-known small
marble group in the British Museum illustrative of the story.

ACTA SENATUS, or COMMENTARII SENATUS, minutes of the
discussions and decisions of the Roman senate.  Before the
first consulship of Julius Caesar (59 B.C.), minutes of
the proceedings of the senate were written and occasionally
published, but unofficially; Caesar, desiring to tear away the
veil of mystery which gave an unreal importance to the senate's
deliberations, first ordered them to be recorded and issued
authoritatively.  The keeping of them was continued by
Augustus, but their publication was forbidden (Suetonius,
Augustus, 36). A young senator (ab actis senatus) was
chosen to draw up these Acta, which were kept in the imperial
archives and public libraries (Tacitus, Ann. v. 4).
Special permission from the city praefect was necessary in
order to examine them.  For authorities see ACTA DIURNA.

ACTINOMETER (Gr. aktis, ray, metron, measure), an
instrument for measuring the heating and chemical effects of
light.  The name was first given by Sir John Herschel to an
apparatus for measuring the heating effect of solar rays (Edin.
Journ. Science, 1825); Herschel's instrument has since been
discarded in favour of the pyrheliometer (Gr. tur, fire,
elios, sun). (See RADIATION.) The word actinometer is now
usually applied to instruments for measuring the actinic or
chemical effect of luminous rays; their action generally depends
upon photochemical changes (see PHOTO-CHEMISTRY).  Certain
practical forms are described in the article PHOTOGRAPHY.

ACTINOMYCOSIS (STREPTOTRICHOSIS), a chronic infective
disease occurring in both cattle and man.  In both these groups
it presents the same clinical course, being characterized
by chronic inflammation with the formation of granulomatous
tumours, which tend to undergo suppuration, fibrosis or
calcification.  It used to be believed that this disease was
caused by a single vegetable parasite, the Ray-Fungus, but
there is now an overwhelming mass of observations to show that
the clinical features may be produced by a number of different
species of parasites, for which the generic name Streptothrix
has been generally adopted.  In 1899 the committee of the
Pathological Society of London recommended that the term
Streptotrichosis should be used as the appropriate clinical
epithet of the large class of Streptothrix infections.
And since that year the name Actinomycosis has been falling
into disuse, and in any case is only used synonymously with
Streitotrichosis.  For a further account of these parasites
see the articles on BACTERIOLOGY and on PARASITIC DISEASES.

Pathological Anatomy.---The naked-eye appearance of the
different organs affected by Streptothrix infection varies
according to the duration and acuteness of the disease.  In
some tissues the appearance is that of simple inflammation,
whereas in others it may be characteristic.  The liver when
affected shows scattered foci of suppuration, which may become
aggregated into spheroidal masses, surrounded by a zone of
inflammation.  In the lungs the changes may be any that are
produced by the following conditions. (1) An acute bronchitis.
(2) A phthisical lung, grey nodules being scattered here and
there almost exactly simulating tuberculous nodules. (3) An acute
broncho-pneumonia with some interstitial fibrosis and a tendency
to abscess formation.  The most characteristic lesions are in the
skin.  These appear as nodules, sarcomatous-looking, soft and
pulpy.  Their colour is mottled, yellow and purplish red.  The
skin over them is thinned out, and broken down in places to
form one or two crateriform ulcers from which a clear sticky
fluid exudes.  The size varies from that of a pea to a small
orange.  The pus is characteristic, varying in consistency
though usually viscid, and containing numerous minute specks.

The disease is more common in males than in females, aod
more prevalent in Germany and Russia than in England.  The
infection is probably spread by grain (corn or barley), on
which the fungus may often be found.  In a great number of
recorded cases the patient has been following agricultural
pursuits.  The disease can only be transmitted from one
individual to another with considerable difficulty, and no case
of direct transmission from animal to man has yet been noted.

Clinical History.---The course of actinomycosis is usually a
chronic one, but occasionally the fungus gets into the blood,
when the course is that of an acute infective disease or even
pyaemia.  The symptoms are entirely dependent on the organ
attacked, and are in no way specially characteristic.  During
life a diagnosis of phthisis is continually made, and only a
microscopic examination after death renders the true nature
of the disease apparent.  The nature of the skin lesion is
the most evident, and here the parasite can be detected early
in the illness.  The only drug which appears to have any
beneficial influence on the course of the disease is potassium
iodide, and this has occasionally been used with great
benefit.  Surgical interference is usually needed, either
excision of the part affected, or, where possible, a thorough
scraping of the lesion and free application of antiseptics.

ACTINOZOA, a term in systematic zoology, first used by
H. M. D. de Blainville about 1834, to designate animals the
organs of which were disposed radially about a centre.  De
Blainville included in his group many unicellular forms such as
Noctiluca (see PROTOZOA), sea-anemones, corals, jelly-fish
and hydroid polyps, echinoderms, polyzoa and rotifera.  T.
H. Huxley afterwards restricted the term.  He showed that in
de Blainville's group there were associated with a number of
heterogeneous forms a group of animals characterized by being
composed of two layers of cells comparable with the first two
layers in the development of vertebrate animals.  Such forms
he distinguished as Coelentera, and showed that they had no
special affinity with echinoderms, polyzoa, &c. He divided
the Coelentera into a group Hydrozoa, in which the sexually
produced embryos were usually set free from the surface of the
body, and a group Actinozoa, in which the embryos are detached
from the interior of the body and escape generally by the oral
aperture.  Huxley's Actinozoa comprised the sea-anemones,
corals and sea-pens, on the one hand, and the Ctenophora on the
other.  Later investigations, whilst confirming the general
validity of Huxley's conclusions, have slightly altered
the limits and definitions of his groups. (See ANTHOZOA,
COELENTERA, CTENOPHORA and HYDROZOA.) (P. C. M.)

ACTION, in law, a term used by jurists in three different
senses: (1) a right to institute proceedings in a court of
justice to obtain redress for a wrong (actio nihil aliud
est quam jus prosequendi in judieio quod alicui debetur,
Bracton, de Legibus Angliae, bk. iii. ch. i., f. 98 b);
(2) the proceeding itself (actionn n'est auter chose que
loyall demande de son droit, Co. Litt. 285 (a)); (3) the
particular form of the proceeding.  The term is derived from
the Roman law (actio), in which it is used in all three
senses.  In the history of Roman law, actions passed through three
stages.  The first period (terminated about 170 B.C. by the
Lex Aebutia) is known as the system of legis actiones, and
was based on the precepts of the XII. tables and used before
the praetor urbanus. These actiones were five in number
--sacramenti, per judicis postulationem, per condictionem,
per manus injectionem, per pignoris captionem. The first
was the primitive and characteristic action of the Roman
law, and the others were little more than modes of applying
it to cases not contemplated in the original form, or of
carrying the result of it into execution when the action had
been decided.  The legis actiones were superseded by the
formulae, originated by the praetor peregrinus for the
determination of controversies between foreigners, but found
more flexible than the earlier system and made available for
citizens by the Lex Aebutia. Under both these systems
the praetor referred the matter in dispute to an arbiter
(judex), but in the later he settled the formula (i.e.
the issues to be referred and the appropriate form of relief)
before making the order of reference.  In the third stage,
the formulary stage fell into disuse, and after A.D. 342 the
magistrate himself or his deputy decided the controversy after
the defending party had been duly summoned by a libellus.

The classifications of actiones in Roman law were very
numerous.  The division which is still most universally
recognized is that of actions in rem and actions in
personam (Sohm, Roman Law, tr. by Ledlie, 2nd ed.
277).  An action in rem asserts a right to a particular
thing against all the world.  An action in personam asserts
a right only against a particular person.  Perhaps the best
modern example of the distinction is that made in maritime
cases between an action against a ship after a collision
at sea, and an action against the owners of the ship.

In English law the term ``action'' at a very early date
became associated with civil proceedings in the Court of
Common Pleas, which were distinguished from pleas of the
crown, such as indictments or informations and for suits in
the Court of Chancery or in the Admiralty or ecclesiastical
courts.  The English action was a proceeding commenced by writ
original at the common law.  The remedy was of right and not of
grace.  The history of actions is the history of civil procedure
in the courts of common law.  As a result of the reform of
civil procedure by the Judicature Acts the term ``action'' in
English law now means at the High Court of Justice ``a civil
proceeding commenced by writ of summons or in such other manner
as may be prescribed by rules of court'' (e.g. by originating
summons).  The proceeding thus commenced ends by judgment and
execution.  This definition includes proceedings under the
Chancery, Admiralty and Probate jurisdiction of the High
Court, but excludes proceedings commenced by petition, such
as divorce suits and bankruptcy and winding-up matters, as
well as criminal proceedings in the High Court or applications
for the issue of the writs of mandamus, prohibition,
habeas corpus or certiorari. The Judicature Acts and
Rules have had the effect of abolishing all the forms of
``action'' used at the common law and of creating one common
form of legal proceeding for all ordinary controversies
between subjects in whatever division of the High Court.
The stages in an English action are the writ, by which the
persons against whom relief is claimed are summoned before
the court; the pleadings and interlocutory steps, by which
the issues between the parties are adjusted; the trial, at
which the issues of fact and law involved are brought before
the tribunal; the judgment, by which the relief sought
is granted or refused; and execution, by which the law
gives to the successful party the fruits of the judgment.

The procedure varies according as the action is in the High
Court, a county court or one of the other local courts of record
which still survive; but there is no substantial difference in
the incidents of trial, judgment and execution in any of these
courts.  The initial difference between actions in the High
Court and the county court is that the latter are commenced
by plaint lodged in the court, on which a summons is prepared
by the court and served by its bailiff, whereas in the High
Court the party prepares the writ and lodges it in court for
sealing, and when it is sealed, himself effects the service.

An action is said to ``lie'' when the law provides a remedy for
some particular act or omission by a subject which infringes
the legal rights of another subject.  An act of such a
character is said to give a ``cause of action.'' In the action
the person who alleges himself aggrieved claims a judgment
of the court in his favour giving an adequate and appropriate
remedy for the injury or damage which he has sustained by
the infraction of his rights.  As to the time within which an
action must be brought, see LIMITATION, STATUTES OF. When
the rights of a subject are infringed by the illegal action
of the state, an action lies in England against the officers
who have done the wrong, unless the claim be one arising out
of breach of a contract with the state, or out of an ``Act
of State.'' For a breach by the state of a contract made
between the state and a subject the remedy of the subject
is, as a general rule, not by action against the agents of
the state who acted for the state with reference to the making
or breach of the contract, but against the Crown itself by
the proceeding called Petition of Right (see PETITION).

While as a generic term ``action'' in its proper legal sense
includes suits by the Crown and ``criminal actions'' (see Co.
Litt. 284b; Bracton, de Legibus Angliae, bk. iii. ch. v.
f. 1046; Bradlaugh v. Clarke, 1883, 8 App. Cas. 354, 361,
374), in popular language it is taken to mean a proceeding
by a subject and is now rarely applied in England even by
lawyers to criminal proceedings.  What are now known as ``penal
actions,'' i.e. proceedings in which an individual who has
not suffered personally by a breach of the law sues as a common
informer for the statutory penalty either on his own benefit
or on behalf also of the Crown (qui tam pro rege quam pro se
ipso), bear some analogy to the actio popularis of Roman
law, from which they are derived (see the statute 4 Hen.
VII. 1488); but they are now treated for most purposes as
civil and not as criminal proceedings.  The law of Scotland
follows the lines of the civil law, and the expression
``criminal action'' is in use to distinguish proceedings
to punish offences against the public as distinguished
from civil action, brought to enforce a private right.

In the United States, and the British colonies in which English
law runs by settlement, charter, proclamation or statute,
the nature of an action is substantially the same as in
England.  The differences between one state of the Union and
another, and one colony and another, depend mainly on the
extent to which the old procedure of the common law has been
abolished, simplified or reformed by local legislation.

AUTHORITIES.--Roman Law: Sohm, Institutes of Roman Law,
W. G. Ledlie (2nd ed., 1901).  English Law: Pollock and
Maitland, English Law; Holmes, The Common Law; Bullen
and Leake, Prec.  Pleadings (3rd ed.: 6th ed. 1905).

ACTIUM (mod. Punta), the ancient name of a promontory
in the north of Acarnania (Greece) at the mouth of the
Sinus Ambracius (Gulf of Arta) opposite Nicopolis, built
by Augustus on the north side of the strait.  On the
promontory was an ancient temple of Apollo Actius, which
was enlarged by Augustus, who also, in memory of the battle,
instituted or renewed the quinquennial games called Actia
or Ludi Actiaci. Actiaca Aera was a computation of time
from the battle of Actium.  There was on the promontory
a small town, or rather village, also called Actium.

History.-Actium belonged originally to the Corinthian
colonists of Anactorium, who probably founded the worship of
Apollo Actius and the Actia games; in the 3rd century it
fell to the Acarnanians, who subsequently held their synods
there.  Actium is chiefly famous as the site of Octavian's
decisive victory over Mark Antony (2nd of September 31 B.C.).
This battle ended a long series of ineffectual operations.
The final conflict was provoked by Antony, who is said to have
been persuaded by Cleopatra to retire to Egypt and give battle
to mask his retreat; but lack of provisions and the growing
demoralization of his army would sufficiently account for his
decision.  The fleets met outside the gulf, each over 200
strong (the totals given by ancient authorities are very
conflicting).  Antony's heavy battleships endeavoured to
close and crush the enemy with their artillery; Octavian's
light and mobile craft made skilful use of skirmishing
tactics.  During the engagement Cleopatra suddenly withdrew
her squadron and Antony slipped away behind her.  His
flight escaped notice, and the conflict remained undecided,
until Antony's fleet was set on fire and thus annihilated.

AUTHORITIES-- Dio Cassi us, 50.12-51.3; Plutarch, Antonius,
62-68; Velleius Paterculus, ii. 84-85.  C. Merivale, History
of the Romans under the Empire, iii. pp. 313-325 (London,
1851); V. Gardthausen, Augustus und seine Zeit, i. pp.
369-386, ii. pp. 189-201 (Leipzig, 1891 ): G. Ferrero
in the Revue de Paris, Mar. 15, 1906, pp. 225-243; b.
Kromayer, in Hermes, xxxiv. (1899), pp. 1-54. (M. O. B. C.)

ACT OF PARLIAMENT. An act of parliament may be regarded
as a declaration of the legislature, enforcing certain
rules of conduct, or defining rights and conferring them
upon or withholding them from certain persons or classes of
persons.  The collective body of such declarations constitutes
the statutes of the realm or written law of the British
nation, in the widest sense, from Anglo-Saxon times to the
present day.  It is not, however, till the earlier half
of the 13th century that, in a more limited constitutional
sense, the statute-book is generally held to open, and the
parliamentary records only begin to assume distinct outlines
late in the reign of Edward I. It gradually became a fixed
constitutional principle that an act of parliament, to be
valid, must express concurrently the will of the entire
legislature.  It was not, however, till the reign of Henry
VI. that it became customary, as now, to introduce bills into
parliament in the form of finished acts; and the enacting
clause, regarded by constitutionalists as the first perfect
assertion, in words, of popular right, came into general
use as late as the reign of Charles II. It is thus expressed
in the case of all acts other than those granting money to
the crown:---``Be it enacted by the King's most excellent
Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords
Spiritual and Temporal and Commons in this present Parliament
assembled, and by the authority of the same.'' Where the
act is a money grant the enacting clause is prefaced by the
words, ``Most gracious Sovereign, we, Your Majesty's most
dutiful and loyal subjects, the Commons of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Ireland, in Parliament assembled, towards
making good the supply1 which we have cheerfully granted
to Your Majesty in this session of Parliament, have resolved
to grant unto Your Majesty the sums hereinafter mentioned;
and do therefore most humbly beseech Your Majesty that it
may be enacted, &c.'' The use of the preamble with which
acts are usually prefaced is thus quaintly set forth by Lord
Coke: ``The rehearsal or preamble of the statute is a good
meane to find out the meaning of the statute, and, as it
were, a key to open the understanding thereof'' (Co. Litt.
79a).  Originally the collective acts of each session formed
but one statute, to which a general title was attached,
and for this reason an act of parliament was up to 1892
generally cited as the chapter of a particular statute, e.g.
24 and 25 Vict. c. 101. Titles were, however, prefixed to
individual acts as early as 1488.  Now, by the Short Titles
Act 1892, it is optional to cite most important acts up
to that date by their short titles, either individually or
collectively.  Most modern acts have borne short titles
independently of the act of 1892. (See PARLIAMENT; STATUTE.)

1 Where the grant is not of supply, the preamble varies a
little, e.g. in the Prince of Wales's Children Act 1889.

ACTON (JOHN EMERICH EDWARD DALBERG ACTON), IST BARON
(1834-1902), English historian, only son of Sir Richard Acton,
7th baronet, and grandson of the Neapolitan admiral, Sir J.
F. E. Acton, 6th baronet (q.v.), was born at Naples on the
10th of January 1834.  His grandfather, who had succeeded
in 1791 to the baronetcy and family estates in Shropshire,
previously held by the English branch of the Acton family,
represented a younger branch which had transferred itself
first to France and then to Italy, but by the extinction of the
elder branch the admiral became head of the family; his eldest
son, Richard, had married Marie Louise Pelline, the daughter
and heiress of Emerich Joseph, duc de Dalberg (q.v.), a
naturalized French noble of ancient German lineage who had
entered thc French service under Napoleon and represented
Louis XVIII. at the congress of Vienna in 1814, and after
Sir Richard Acton's death in 1837 she became (1840) the
wife of the 2nd Earl Granville.  Coming of a Roman Catholic
family, young Acton was educated at Oscott till 1848 under
Dr (afterwards Cardinal) Wiseman, and then at Edinburgh,
and at Munich under Dollinger, whose lifelong friend he
became.  He had wished to go to Cambridge, but for a Roman
Catholic this was then impossible.  By Dollinger he was
inspired with a deep love of historical research and a profound
conception of its functions as a critical instrument.  He was
a master of the chief foreign languages, and began at an early
age to collect a magnificent historical library, with the
object, never in fact realized, of writing a great History of
Liberty.  In politics he was always an ardent Liberal.  Without
being a notable traveller, he spent much time in the chief
intellectual centres of Europe, and in the United States,
and numbered among his friends such men as Montalembert, De
Tocqueville.  Fustel de Coulanges, Bluntschli, von Sybel and
Ranke.  He was attached to Lord Granville's mission to Moscow,
as British representative at the coronation of Alexander II. in
1856.  In 1859 Sir John Acton settled in England, at his country
house, Aldenham, in Shropshire.  He was returned to the House
of Commons in that year for the Irish borough of Carlow, and
became a devoted admirer and adherent of Mr Gladstone; but he
was practically a silent member, and his parliamentary career
came to an end after the general election of 1865, when,
having headed the poll for Bridgnorth, he was unseated on a
scrutiny; he contested Bridgnorth again in 1868, but without
success.  Meanwhile he had become editor of the Roman Catholic
monthly paper, the Rambler, in 1859, on J. H. Newman's
retirement from the editorship; and in 1862 he merged this
periodical in the Home and Foreign Review. His contributions
at once gave evidence of his remarkable wealth of historical
knowledge.  But though a sincere Roman Catholic, his whole
spirit as a historian was hostile to ultramontane pretensions,
and his independence of thought and liberalism of view
speedily brought him into conflict with the Roman Catholic
hierarchy.  As early as August 1862, Cardinal Wiseman publicly
censured the Review; and when in 1864, after Dollinger's
appeal at the Munich Congress for a less hostile attitude
towards historical criticism, the pope issued a declaration
that the opinions of Catholic writers were subject to the
authority of the Roman congregations, Acton felt that there
was only one way of reconciling his literary conscience with
his ecclesiastical loyalty, and he stopped the publication of
his monthly periodical.  He continued, however, to contribute
articles to the North British Review, which, previously
a Scottish Free Church organ, had been acquired by friends
in sympathy with him, and which for some years (until 1872,
when it ceased to appear) actively promoted the interests of
a high-class Liberalism in both temporal and ecclesiastical
matters; he also did a good deal of lecturing on historical
subjects.  In 1865 he married the Countess Marie, daughter
of the Bavarian Count Arco-Valley, by whom he had one son
and three daughters.  In 1869 he was raised to the peerage
by Gladstone as Baron Acton; he was an intimate friend and
constant correspondent of the Liberal leader, and the two
men had the very highest regard for one another.  Matthew
Arnold used to say that ``Gladstone influences all round
him but Acton; it is Acton who influences Gladstone.''

In 1870 came the great crisis in the Roman Catholic world
over the promulgation by Pius IX. of the dogma of papal
infallibility.  Lord Acton, who was in complete sympathy on
this subject with Dollinger (q.v.), went to Rome in order
to throw all his influence against it, but the step he so much
dreaded was not to be averted.  The Old Catholic separation
followed, but Acton did not personally join the seceders,
and the authorities prudently refrained from forcing the
hands of so competent and influential an English layman.  In
1874, when Gladstone published his pamphlet on The Vatican
Decrees, Lord Acton wrote during November and December a
series of remarkable letters to The Times, illustrating
Gladstone's main theme by numerous historical examples of papal
inconsistency, in a way which must have been bitter enough
to the ultramontane party, but demurring nevertheless to
Gladstone's conclusion and insisting that the Church itself
was better than its premisses implied.  Acton's letters led
to another storm in the English Roman Catholic world, but once
more it was considered prudent by the Vatican to leave him
alone.  In spite of his reservations, he regarded ``communion
with Rome as dearer than life.'' Thenceforth he steered clear
of theological polemics.  He devoted himself to persistent
reading and study, combined with congenial society.  With
all his capacity for study he was a man of the world, and a
man of affairs, not a bookworm.  Little indeed came from his
pen, his only notable publications being a masterly essay
in the Quarterly Review of January 1878 on ``Democracy in
Europe''; two lectures delivered at Bridgnorth in 1877 on ``The
History of Freedom in Antiquity'' and ``The History of Freedom
in Christianity''--these last the only tangible portions put
together by him of his long-projected ``History of Liberty'';
and an essay on modern German historians in the first number
of the English Historical Review, which he helped to found
(1886).  After 1879 he divided his time between London, Cannes
and Tegernsee in Bavaria, enjoying and reciprocating the
society of his friends.  In 1872 he had been given the honorary
degree of doctor of philosophy by Munich University; in 1888
Cambridge gave him the honorary degree of LL.D., and in 1889
Oxford the D.C.L.; and in 1890 he was made a fellow of All
Souls.  His reputation for learning had gradually been
spread abroad, largely through Gladstone's influence.  The
latter found him a valuable political adviser, and in 1892,
when the Liberal government came in, Lord Acton was made a
lord-in-waiting.  Finally, in 1895, on the death of Sir John
Seeley, Lord Rosebery appointed him to the Regius Professorship
of Modern History at Cambridge.  The choice was an excellent
one.  His inaugural lecture on ``The Study of History,''
afterwards published with notes displaying a vast erudition,
made a great impression in the university, and the new
professor's influence on historical study was felt in many
important directions.  He delivered two valuable courses of
lectures, on the French Revolution and on Modern History,
but it was in private that the effects of his teaching
were most marked.  The great Cambridge Modern History,
though he did not live to see it, was planned under his
editorship, and all who came in contact with him testified
to his stimulating powers and his extraordinary range of
knowledge.  He was taken ill, however, in 1901, and died on
the 19th of June 1902, being succeeded in the title by his
son.  Richard Maximllian Dalberg Acton, 2nd Baron Acton
(b.1870).  Lord Acton has left too little completed original
work to rank among the great historians; his very learning
seems to have stood in his way; he knew too much and his
literary conscience was too acute for him to write easily,
and his copiousness of information overloads his literary
style.  But he was one of the most deeply learned men of his
time, and he will certainly be remembered for his influence on
others.  His extensive library, formed for use and not for
display, and composed largely of books full of his own
annotations, was bought immediately after his death by Mr
Andrew Carnegie, and presented to Mr John Morley, by whom
it was forthwith given to the university of Cambridge.

See Mr Herbert Paul's excellent Introductory Memoir to the
interesting volume of Lord Acton's Letters to Mrs Drew
(1904), and the authorities cited there; also Dom Gasquet's
Lord Acton and his Circle (1906).  A Bibliography of
the works of Lord Acton, by W. A. Shaw, was published by
the Royal Historical Society in 1903.  The Edinburgh Review
of April 1903 contains a luminous essay; and Mr Bryce has a
chapter on Acton in his Studies of Contemporary Biography
(1903).  Lord Acton's Lectures on Modern History, edited
by J. N. Figgis and R. V. Laurence, appeared in 1906; and
his History of Freedom and other Essays and Historical
Essay's and Studies (by the same editors) in 1907. (H. CH.)

ACTON, SIR JOHN FRANCIS EDWARD, BART. (1736--1811). prime
minister of Naples under Ferdinand IV., was the son of Edward
Acton, a physician at Besancon, and was born there in 1736,
succeeding to the title and estates in 1791, on the death of
his cousin in the third degree, Sir Richard Acton of Aldenham
Hall, Shropshire.  He served in the navy of Tuscany, and in
1775 commanded a frigate in the joint expedition of Spain and
Tuscany against Algiers, in which he displayed such courage and
resource that he was promoted to high command.  In 1779 Queen
Maria Carolina of Naples persuaded her brother the Grand-Duke
Leopold of Tuscany to allow Acton, who had been recommended
to her by Prince Caramenico, to undertake the reorganization
of the Neapolitan navy.  The ability displayed by him in this
led to his rapid advancement.  He became commander-in-chief
of both services, minister of finance, and finally prime
minister.  His policy was devised in concert with the English
ambassador, Sir William Hamilton, and aimed at substituting the
influence of Austria and Great Britain for that or Spain, at
Naples, and consequently involved open opposition to France and
the French party in Italy.  The financial and administrative
measures which were the outcome of a policy which necessitated
a great increase of armament made him intensely unpopular,
and in December 1798 he shared the flight of the king and
queen.  For the reign of terror which followed the downfall
of the Parthenopean Republic, five months later, Acton has
been held responsible.  In 1804 he was for a short time
deprived of the reins of government at the demand of France;
but he was speedily restored to his former position, which
he held till, in February 1806, on the entry of the French
into Naples, he had to flee with the royal family into
Sicily.  He died at Palermo on the 12th of August 1811.

He had married, by papal dispensation, the eldest daughter
of his brother, General Joseph Edward Acton (b. 1737), who
was in the Neapolitan service, and left three children, the
elder son, Sir Richard, being the father of the first Lord
Acton.  The second son, Charles Januarius Edward (1803-1847),
after being educated in England and taking his degree at
Magdalene College, Cambridge, in 1823, entered the Academia
Ecclesiastica at Rome.  He left this with the rank of prolate,
in 1828 was secretary to the nuncio at Paris and was made
vice-legate of Bologna shortly afterwards.  He became secretary
of the congregation of the Disciplina Regolare, and auditor
of the Apostolic Chamber under Gregory XVI., by whom he was
made a cardinal in 1842.  Cardinal Acton was protector of the
English College at Rome, and had been mainly instrumental in
the increase, in 1840, of the English vicariates-general to
eight, which paved the way for the restoration of the hierarchy
by Pius IX. in 1850.  He died on the 23rd of June 1847.

ACTON, an urban district in the Ealing parliamentary
division of Middlesex, England, suburban to London, 9 m.  W.
of St. Paul's Cathedral.  Pop. (1861) 3151; (1901) 37,744.
Its appearance is now wholly that of a modern residential
suburb.  The derivation offered for its name is from Oak-town,
in reference to the extensive forest which formerly covered the
locality.  The land belonged from early times to the see of
London, a grant being recorded in 1220.  Henry III. had a
residence here.  At the time of the Commonwealth Acton was
a centre of Puritanism.  Philip Nye (d. 1672) was rector;
Richard Baxter, Sir Matthew Hale (Lord Chief-Justice), Henry
Fielding the novelist and John Lindley the botanist (d. 1865)
are famous names among residents here.  Acton Wells, of saline
waters, had considerable reputation in the 18th century.

ACT ON PETITION, the term for a part of the procedure in the
Probate, Divorce and Admiralty Division, now of infrequent
occurrence.  It was more freely used in the old Admiralty and
Divorce courts before the Judicature Acts. (See PLEADING.)

ACTS OF THE APOSTLES. This book of the Bible, which now
stands fifth in the New Testament, was read at first as the
companion and sequel of the Gospel of Luke.  Its separation
was due to growing consciousness of the Gospels as a unit
of sacred records, to which Acts stood as a sort of
appendix.  Historically it is of unique interest and
value: it has no fellow within the New Testament or without
it.  The so-called Apocryphal Acts of certain apostles, while
witnessing to the impression produced by our Acts as a type
of edifying literature, only emphasize this fact.  It is the
one really primitive Church history, primitive in spirit as in
substance; apart from it a connected picture of the Apostolic
Age would be impossible.  With it, the Pauline Epistles are
of priceless historical value; without it, they would remain
bafflingly fragmentary and incomplete, often even misleading.

1. Plan and Aim.---All agree that the Acts of the Apostles
is the work of an author of no mean skill, and that he has
exercised careful selection in the use of his materials, in
keeping with a definite purpose and plan.  It is of moment,
then, to discover from his emphasis, whether by iteration
or by fulness of scale, what objects he had in mind in
writing.  Here it is not needful to go farther back than F.
C. Baur and the Tubingen school, with its theory of sharp
antitheses between Judaic and Gentile Christianity, of which
they took the original apostles and Paul respectively as
typical.  Gradually their statement of this position underwent
serious modifications, as it became realized that neither
Jewish nor Gentile Christianity was a uniform genus, but
included several species, and that the apostolic leaders from
the first stood for mutual understanding and unity.  Hence
the Tubingen school did its chief work in putting the needful
question, not in returning the correct answer.  Their answer
could not be correct, because, as Ritschl showed (in his
Altkath. Kirche, 2nd ed., 1857 ), their premisses were
inadequate.  Still the attitude created by the Tubingen
theory largely persists as a biassing element in much that
is written about Acts. On the whole, however, there is a
disposition to look at the book more objectively and to follow
up the hints as to its aim given by the author in his opening
verses.  Thus (1) his second narrative is the natural sequel
to his first.  As the earlier one set forth in orderly sequence
(kathexes) the providential stages by which Jesus was led,
``in the power of the Spirit,'' to begin the establishment
of the consummated Kingdom of God, so the later work aims at
setting forth on similar principles its extension by means
of His chosen representatives or apostles.  This involves
emphasis on the identity of the power, Divine and not merely
human, expressed in the great series of facts from first to
last.  Thus (2) the Holy Spirit appears as directing and
energizing throughout the whole struggle with the powers
of evil to be overcome in either ministry, of Master or
disciples.  But (3) the continuity is more than similarity of
activity resting on the same Divine energy.  The working of
the energy in the disciples is conditioned by the continued
life and volition of their Master at His Father's right
hand in heaven.  The Holy Spirit, ``the Spirit of Jesus,''
is the living link between Master and disciples.  Hence
the pains taken to exhibit (i. 2, 4 f. 8, ii. I ff.,
cf.  Luke xxiv. 49) the fact of such spiritual solidarity,
whereby their activity means His continued action in the
world.  And (4) the scope of this action is nothing less than
humanity (ii. 5 ff.), especially within the Roman empire.
It was foreordained that Messiah's witnesses should be borne
by Divine power through all obstacles and to ever-widening
circles, until they reached and occupied Rome itself for the God
of Israel--now manifest (as foretold by Israel's own prophets)
as the one God of the one race of mankind. (5) Finally, as
we gather from the parallel account in Luke xxiv.46-48, the
divinely appointed method of victory is through suffering
(Acts xiv. 22). This explains the large space devoted to the
tribulations of the witnesses, and their constancy amid them,
after the type of their Lord Himself.  It forms one side of the
virtual apologia for the absence of that earthly prosperity
in which the pagan mind was apt to see the token of Divine
approval.  Another side is the recurring exhibition of the
fact that these witnesses were persecuted only by those whose
action should create no bias against the persecuted.  Their
foes were chiefly Jews, whose opposition was due partly to
a stiff-necked disinclination to bow to the wider reading
of their own religion --to which the Holy Spirit had from of
old been pointing (cf. the prominence given to this idea in
Stephen's long speech)--and partly to jealousy of those who,
by preaching the wider Messianic Evangel, were winning over the
Gentiles, and particularly proselytes, in such great numbers.

Such, then, seem to be the author's main motifs. They make
up an account fairly adequate to the manifoldness of the
book; yet they may be summed up in three ideas, together
constituting the moral which this history of the expansion
of Christianity aims at bringing home to its readers.  These
are the universality of the Gospel, the jealousy of
national Judaism, and the Divine initiative manifest
in the gradual stages by which men of Jewish birth were
led to recognize the Divine will in the setting aside of
national restrictions, alien to the universal destiny of the
Church.  The practical moral is the Divine character of the
Christian religion, as evinced by the manner of its extension
in the empire, no less than by its original embodiment
in the Founder's life and death.  Thus both parts of the
author's work alike tend to produce assured conviction of
Christianity as of Divine origin (Luke i. 1, 4; Acts i. 1 f.).

This view has the merit of giving the book a practical religious
aim--a sine qua non to any theory of an early Christian
writing. though meant for men of pagan birth in the first
instance, it is to them as inquirers or even converts, such
as ``Theophilus,'' that the argument is addressed.  In spite
of all difficulties, this religion is worthy of personal
belief, even though it mean opposition and suffering.  Among
the features of the occasion which suggested the need of such
an appeal was doubtless the existence of persecution by the
Roman authorites, perhaps largely at the instigation of local
Judaism.  To meet this special perplexity, the author holds
up the picture of early days, when the great protagonist of
the Gospel constantly enjoyed protection at the hands of Roman
justice.  It is implied that the present distress is but a
passing phase, resting on some misunderstanding; meantime,
the example of apostolic constancy should yield strong
reassurance.  The Acts of the Apostles is in fact an Apology
for the Church as distinct from Judaism, the breach with
which is accordingly traced with great fulness and care.

From this standpoint Acts no longer seems to end
abruptly.  Whether as exhibiting the Divine leading and
aid, or as recording the impartial and even kindly attitude
of the Roman State towards the Christians, the writer has
reached a climax. ``He wished,'' as Harnack well remarks,
``to point out the might of the Holy Spirit in the apostles,
Christ's witnesses; and to show how this might carried the
Gospel from Jerusalem to Rome and gained for it entrance
into the pagan world, whilst the Jews in growing degree
incurred rejection.  In keeping with this, verses 26-28
of chapter xxviii. are the solemn closing verses of the
work.  But verses 30, 31 are an appended observation.''

Yet the writer is, in fact, ending up most fitly on one
of his keynotes, in that he leaves Paul preaching in Rome
itself, ``unmolested.'' ``Paulus Romae, apex Evangelii.''

The full force of this is missed by those who, while rejecting
the idea that the author had in reserve enough Pauline history
to furnish another work, yet hold that Paul was freed from the
imprisonment amid which Acts leaves him (see PAUL).  But for
those, on the other hand, who see in the writer's own words in
xx. 38, uncontradicted by anything in the sequel, a broad hint
that Paul never saw his Ephesian friends again, the natural
view is open that the sequel to the two years' preaching was
too well known to call for explicit record.  Nor would such
silence touching Paul's speedy martyrdom be disingenuous, any
more than on the theory that martyrdom overtook him several years
later.  The writer views Paul's death (like the horrors of
Nero's Vatican Gardens in 64) as a mere exception to the rule
of Roman policy heretofore illustrated.  Not even by the Roman
authorities were some of Nero's acts regarded as precedents.

2. Authorship.--External evidence, which is relatively
early and widespread (e.g. Muratorian Canon, Irenaeus,
Tertullian,Clement and Origen), all points to Luke, the
companion and fellow-worker of Paul (Philem. 24), who probably
accompanied him as physician also (Col. iv. 14). It must be
noted too that evidence for his authorship of the third Gospel
counts also for Acts. This carries us back at least to the
second quarter of the 2nd century (Justin, Dial. 103, and
most probably Marcion), when Loukan no doubt stood at the
head of the Gospel, especially where it was used side by side
with the others.  We have every reason to trust the Church's
tradition at this time, particularly as Luke was not prominent
enough as an associate of Paul to suggest the theory as a
guess.  Nor does Eusebius, who knew the ante-Nicene literature
intimately, seem to know of any other view ever having been
held.  If, then, the traditional Lucan authorship is to be
doubted, it must be on internal evidence only.  The form of
the book, however, in all respects favours Luke, who was of
non-Jewish birth (see Col. iv. 12-14 compared with 10 f.), and
as a physician presumably a man of culture.  The medical cast
of much of its language, which is often of a highly technical
nature, points strongly the same way;1 while the early tradition
that Luke was born in the Syrian Antioch admirably suits the
fulness with which the origin of the Antiochene Church and
its place in the further extension of the Gospel are described
(see LUKE).  Again, the attitude of Acts towards the Roman
Empire is just what would be expected from a close comrade of
Paul (cf. Sir W. M. Ramsay, St Paul the Traveller and Roman
Citizen, 1895), but was hardly likely to be shared by one of
the next generation, reared in an atmosphere of resentment,
first at Nero's conduct and then at the persecuting policy
of the Flavian Caesars (see REVELATION).  Finally, the
book itself seems to claim to be written by a companion of
Paul.  In chap. xvi. 10 the writer, without any previous
warning, passes from the third person to the first.  Paul
had reached Troas.  There he saw a vision inviting him to
go to Macedonia. ``But when he saw the vision, straightway
we sought to go forth into Macedonia.'' Thenceforth ``we''
re-emerges at certain points in the narrative until Rome is
reached.  Irenaeus (iii. 14. 1) quotes these passages as proof
that Luke, the author, was a companion of the apostle.  The
minute character of the narrative, the accurate description
of the various journeyings, the unimportance of some of the
details, especially some of the incidents of the shipwreck,
are strong reasons for believing that the narrative is that
of an eyewitness.  If so, we can scarcely help coming to the
conclusion that this eye-witness was the author of the work;
for the style of this eye-witness is exactly the style of the
writer who composed the previous portions (see Harnack, op.
cit., reinforcing the argument as already worked out by B.
Weiss, 1893, and especially by Sir J. C. Hawkins in Horae
Synopticae, 1899, pp. 143-147).  Most scholars admit that
the ``we'' narrative is that of a personal companion of
Paul, who was probably none other than Luke, in view of his
traditional authorship of Acts. But many suppose that the
tradition arose from confused remembrance of the use by a
later author of Luke's ``we'' document or travel-diary.  This
supposition would compel us to believe either that the skilful
writer of Acts was so careless as to incorporate a document
without altering its form, or that ``we'' is introduced
intentionally.  In the latter case we must suppose either that
the writer was an eye-witness, or that he wished to be thought an
eye-witness.  E. Zeller, a follower of Baur, adopted this latter
alternative, and P. W. Schmiedel adheres to it.  Indeed it
is hard to see how it can be avoided on the theory that the
author of Acts used a travel-document by another hand (see
below, Sources). On the whole, then, the most tenable theory
is that the writer of the ``we'' sections was also the author
of Acts; and that he was Luke, Paul's companion during most
of his later ministry, and also his ``counterpart,'' ``as a
Hellene, who yet had personal sympathy with Jewish primitive
Christianity'' (Harnack, op. cit. p. 103; see also LUKE).

3. Sources.--So far from the recognition of a plan in Acts
being inimical to a quest after the materials used in its
composition, one may say that it points the way thereto, while
it keeps the literary analysis within scientific limits.
The more one realizes the standpoint of the mind pervading
the book as a whole, the more one feels that the speeches in
the first part of Acts (e.g. that of Stephen)---and indeed
elsewhere, too--are not ``free compositions'' of our author,
the mere outcome of dramatic idealization such as ancient
historians like Thucydides or Polybius allowed themselves.
The Christology, for instance of the early Petrine speeches
is such as a Gentile Christian writing c. 80 A.D. simply
could not have imagined.  Thus we are forced to assume the
use of a certain amount of early Judaeo-Christian material,
akin to that implied also in the special parts of the Third
Gospel.  Paul Feine (Eine vorkanonische Ueberlieferung des
Lukas, 1891) suggested that a single document explains this
material in both works, as far as Acts xii.  Others maintain
that at any rate two sources underlie Acts i.-xii., or even
i.-xv. (see A. Harnack, Die Apostelgeschichte, p. 131
ff.).  In particular we can recognize a source embodying the
traditions of the largely Hellenistic Church of Antioch, a
secondary gloss from which may survive in the Bezan addition
to xi. 27, ``when we were assembled.'' Further, if our
author was a careful inquirer (Luke i. 3), especially if
he was in the habit of taking down in writing what he heard
from different witnesses, this may explain some of the
phenomena.  Such a man as Luke would have rare faculties
for collecting Palestinian materials, varying no doubt in
accuracy, but all relatively primitive, whether in Antioch or
in Caesarea, where he probably resided for some two years in
contact with men like Philip the Evangelist (xxi. 8). There
and elsewhere he might also learn a good deal from John Mark,
Peter's friend (1 Pet. v. 13; Acts xii. 12). In any case the
study of sources (Quellenkritik) is a comparatively new
one, and the resources of analysis, linguistic in particular,
are by no means exhausted.  One important analogy exists
for the way in which our author would handle any written
sources he may have had by him, namely, the manner in
which he uses Mark's Gospel narrative in compiling his own
Gospel.  Guided by this objective criterion, and safeguarded
by growing insight into the author's plastic aim, we need
not despair of reaching large agreement as to the nature
of the sources lying behind the first half of Acts.

In the second or strictly Pauline half we are confronted by
the so-called ``we'' passages.  Of these two main theories
are possible: (1) that which sees in them traces of an
earlier document--whether entries in a travel-diary, or a
more or less consecutive narrative written later; and (2)
that which would regard the ``we'' as due to the author's
breaking instinctively into the first person plural at certain
points where he felt himself specially identified with the
history.  On the former hypothesis, it is still in debate
whether the ``we'' document does or does not lie behind more
of the narrative than is definitely indicated by the formula
in question (e.g. cc. xiii.-xv., xxi. 19-xxvi.).  On the
latter, it may well be questioned whether the presence or
absence of ``we'' be not due to psychological causes, rather
than to the writer's mere presence or absence.2 That is,
he may be writing sometimes as a member of Paul's mission at
the critical stages of onward advance, sometimes rather as
a witness absorbed in his hero's words and deeds (so ``we''
ceases between xx. 15 and xxi. 1). Naturally he would fall
into the former attitude mostly when recording the definitive
transition of Paul and his party from one sphere of work
to another (xvi. 10 ff., xx. 5 ff., xxvii. 1 ff.).  At such
times the whole ``mission'' was as one man in its movements.

4. Historical Value.---The question of authorship is
largely bound up with that as to the quality of the contents
as history. Acts is divided into two distinct parts.  The
first (i.-xii.) deals with the church in Jerusalem and Judaea,
and with Peter as central figure---at any rate in cc. i.-v.
``Yet in cc. vi.-xii.,'' as Harnack3 observes, ``the author
pursues several lines at once. (1) He has still in view the
history of the Jerusalem community and the original apostles
(especially of Peter and his missionary labours); (2) he
inserts in vi. 1 ff. a history of the Hellenistic Christians
in Jerusalem and of the Seven Men, which from the first tends
towards the Gentile Mission and the founding of the Antiochene
community; (3) he pursues the activity of Philip in Samaria
and on the coast . . .; (4) lastly, he relates the history of
Paul up to his entrance on the service of the young Antiochene
church.  In the small space of seven chapters he pursues all
these lines and tries also to connect them together, at the
same time preparing and sketching the great transition of
the Gospel from Judaism to the Greek world.  As historian,
he has here set himself the greatest task.'' No doubt gaps
abound in these seven chapters. ``But the inquiry as to
whether what is narrated does not even in these parts still
contain the main facts, and is not substantially trustworthy,
is not yet concluded.'' The difficulty is that we have but
few external means of testing this portion of the narrative
(see below, Date).  Some of it may well have suffered
partial transformation in oral tradition belore reaching
our author; e.g. the nature of the Tongues at Pentecost
does not accord with what we know of the gift of ``tongues''
generally.  The second part pursues the history of the
apostle Paul; and here we can compare the statements made
in the Acts with the Epistles.  The result is a general
harmony, without any trace of direct use of these letters; and
there are many minute coincidences.  But attention has been
drawn to two remarkable exceptions.  These are, the account
given by Paul of his visits to Jerusalem in Galatians as
compared with Acts; and the character and mission of the
apostle Paul, as they appear in his letters and in Acts.

In regard to the first point, the differences as to Paul's
movements until he returns to his native province of
Syria-Cilicia (see PAUL) do not really amount to more than can
be explained by the different interests of Paul and our author
respectively.  But it is otherwise as regards the visits of
Gal. ii. 1-10 and Acts xv.  If they are meant to refer to
the same occasion, as is usually assumed,4 it is hard to
see why Paul should omit reference to the public occasion
of the visit, as also to the public vindication of his
policy.  But in fact the issues of the two visits, as given
in Gal. ii. 9 f. and Acts xv. 20 f., are not at all the
same.5 Nay more, if Gal. ii. 1-10=Acts xv., the historicity
of the ``Relief visit'' of Acts xi. 30, xii. 25, seems
definitely excluded by Paul's narrative of events before the
visit of Gal. ii. 1 ff.  Accordingly, Sir W. M. Ramsay and
others argue that the latter visit itself coincided with the
Relief visit, and even see in Gal. ii. 10 witness thereto.

But why, then, does not Paul refer to the public charitable
object of his visit? It seems easier therefore to admit that
the visit of Gal. ii. 1 ff. is one altogether unrecorded
in Acts, owing to its private nature as preparing the
way for public developments---with which Acts is mainly
concerned.  In that case it would fall shortly before the Relief
visit, to which there may be tacit explanatory allusion, in
Gal. ii. 10 (see further PAUL); and it will be shown below
that such a conference of leaders in Gal. ii. 1 ff. leads up
excellently both to the First Mission Journey and to Acts xv.

We pass next to the Paul of Acts. Paul insists that he
was appointed the apostle to the Gentiles, as Peter was to
the Circumcision; and that circumcision and the observance
of the Jewish law were of no importance to the Christian as
such.  His words on these points in all his letters are
strong and decided.  But in Acts it is Peter who first
opens up the way for the Gentiles.  It is Peter who uses
the strongest language in regard to the intolerable burden
of the Law as a means of salvation(xv. 10 f., cf. 1). Not a
word is said of any difference of opinion between Peter and
Paul at Antioch (Gal. ii. 11 ff.).  The brethren in Antioch
send Paul and Barnabas up to Jerusalem to ask the opinion
of the apostles and elders: they state their case, and carry
back the decision to Antioch.  Throughout the whole of Acts
Paul never stands forth as the unbending champion of the
Gentiles.  He seems continually anxious to reconcile the
Jewish Christians to himself by personally observing the law of
Moses.  He circumcises the semi-Jew, Timothy; and he performs
his vows in the temple.  He is particularly careful in his
speeches to show how deep is his respect for the law of
Moses.  In all this the letters of Paul are very different
from Acts. In Galatians he claims perfect freedom in
principle, for himself as for the Gentiles, from the
obligatory observance of the law; and neither in it nor in
Corinthians does he take any notice of a decision to which
the apostles had come in their meeting at Jerusalem.  The
narrative of Acts, too, itself implies something other than
what it sets in relief; for why should the Jews hate Paul so
much, if he was not in some sense disloyal to their Law?

There is, nevertheless, no essential contradiction here, only
such a difference of emphasis as belongs to the standpoints
and aims of the two writers amid their respective historical
conditions.  Peter's function in relation to the Gentiles belongs
to the early Palestinian conditions, before Paul's distinctive
mission had taken shape.  Once Paul's apostolate---a personal
one, parallel with the more collective apostolate of ``the
Twelve''--has proved itself by tokens of Divine approval,
Peter and his colleagues frankly recognize the distinction of
the two missions, and are anxious only to arrange that the two
shall not fall apart by religiously and morally incompatible
usages (Acts xv.).  Paul, on his side, clearly implies that
Peter felt with him that the Law could not justify (Gal. ii.
15 ff.), and argues that it could not now be made obligatory
in principle (cf. ``a yoke,'' Acts xv. 10); yet for Jews
it might continue for the time (pending the Parousia) to be
seemly and expedient, especially for the sake of non-believing
Judaism.  To this he conformed his own conduct as a Jew, so
far as his Gentile apostolate was not involved (1 Cor. ix. 19
ff.).  There is no reason to doubt that Peter largely agreed
with him, since he acted in this spirit in Gal. ii. 11 f., until
coerced by Jerusalem sentiment to draw back for expediency's
sake.  This incident it simply did not fall within the scope of
Acts (see below) to narrate, since it had no abiding effect
on the Church's extension.  As to Paul's submission of the
issue in Acts xv. to the Jerusalem conference, Acts does not
imply that Paul would have accepted a decision in favour of the
Judaizers, though he saw the value of getting a decision for
his own policy in the quarter to which they were most likely to
defer.  If the view that he already had an understanding with
the ``Pillar'' Apostles, as recorded in Gal. ii. 1-10 (see
further PAUL), be correct, it gives the best of reasons
why he was ready to enter the later public Conference of Acts
xv.  Paul's own ``free'' attitude to the Law, when on Gentile
soil, is just what is implied by the hostile rumours as to his
conduct in Acts xxi. 21, which he would be glad to disprove
as at least exaggerated (ib. 24 and 26). What is clear is
that such lack of formal accord as here exists between Acts
and the Epistles, tells against its author's dependence on the
latter, and so favours his having been a comrade of Paul himself.

Speeches.

The speeches in Acts deserve special notice.  Did its author
follow the plan adopted by all historians of his age, or
is he an exception? Ancient historians (like many of modern
times) used the liberty of working up in their own language
the speeches recorded by them.  They did not dream of verbal
fidelity; even when they had more exact reports before them, they
preferred to mould a speaker's thoughts to their own methods of
presentation.  Besides this, some did not hesitate to give
to the characters of their history speeches which were never
uttered.  The method of direct speech, so useful in producing
a vivid idea of what is supposed to have passed through the
mind of the speaker, was used to give force to the narrative.
Now how far has the author of Acts followed the practice
of his contemporaries? Some of his speeches are evidently
but summaries of thoughts which occurred to individuals or
multitudes.  Others claim to be reports of speeches really
delivered.  But all these speeches have to a large extent the
same style, the style also of the narrative.  They have been
passed though one editorial mind, and some mutual assimilation
in phraseology and idea may well have resulted.  They are,
moreover, all of them, the merest abstracts.  The speech of
Paul at Athens, as given by Luke, would not occupy more than
a minute or two in delivery.  But these circumstances, while
inconsistent with verbal accuracy, do not destroy authenticity;
and in most of the speeches (e.g. xiv. 15-17 ) there is a
varied appropriateness as well as an allusiveness, pointing to
good information (see under Sources). There is no evidence
that any speech in Acts is the free composition of its author,
without either written or oral basis; and in general he seems
more conscientious than most ancient historians touching the
essentials of historical accuracy, even as now understood.

Miracles. Objections to the trustworthiness of Acts on the
ground of its miracles require to be stated more discriminately
than has sometimes been the case.  Particularly is this so
as regards the question of authorship.  As Harnack observes
(Lukas der Arzt, p. 24), the ``miraculous'' or supernormal
element is hardly, if at all, less marked in the ``we''
sections, which are substantially the witness of a companion
of Paul (and where efforts to dissect out the miracles are
fruitless), than in the rest of the work.  The scientific
method, then, is to consider each ``miracle'' on its own merits,
according as we find reason to suppose that it has reached our
author more or less directly.  But the record of miracle as
such cannot prejudice the question of authorship.  Even the
form in which the gift of Tongues at Pentecost is conceived
does not tell against a companion of Paul, since it may have
stood in his source, and the first outpouring of the Messianic
Spirit may soon have come to be thought of as unique in some
respects, parallel in fact to the Rabbinic tradition as to
the inauguration of the Old Covenant at Sinai (cf. Philo, De
decem oraculis, 9, 11, and the Midrash on Ps. lxviii. 11).

Finally as to such historical difficulties in Acts as still
perplex the student of the Apostolic age, one must remember
the possibilities of mistake intervening between the facts
and the accounts reaching its author, at second or even third
hand.  Yet it must be strongly emphasized, that recent historical
research at the hands of experts in classical antiquity has
tended steadily to verify such parts of the narrative as it can
test, especially those connected with Paul's missions in the Roman
Empire.  That is no new result; but it has come to light in
greater degree of recent years, notably through Sir W. M. Ramsay's
researches.  The proofs of trustworthiness extend also to the
theological sphere.  What was said above of the Christology
of the Petrine speeches applies to the whole conception of
Messianic salvation, the eschatology, the idea of Jesus as
equipped by the Holy Spirit for His Messianic work, found in
these speeches, as also to titles like ``Jesus the Nazarene''
and ``the Righteous One'' both in and beyond the Petrine
speeches.  These and other cases in which we are led to
discern very primitive witness behind Acts, do not indeed
give to such witness the value of shorthand notes or even of
abstracts based thereon.  But they do support the theory that
our author meant to give an unvarnished account of such words
and deeds as had come to his knowledge.  The perspective of
the whole is no doubt his own; and as his witnesses probably
furnished but few hints for a continuous narrative, this
perspective, especially in things chronological, may sometimes be
faulty.  Yet when one remembers that by 70-80 A.D. it must
have been a matter of small interest by what tentative stages
the Messianic salvation first extended to the Gentiles, it
is surely surprising that Acts enters into such detail
on the subject, and is not content with a summary account
of the matter such as the mere logic of the subject would
naturally suggest.  In any case, the very difference of the
perspective of Acts and of Galatians, in recording the
same epochs in Paul's history, argues such an independence
in the former as is compatible only with an early date.

Quellenkritik, then, a distinctive feature of recent
research upon Acts, solves many difficulties in the way
of treating it as an honest narrative by a companion of
Paul.  In addition, we may also count among recent gains
a juster method of judging such a book.  For among the
results of the Tubingen criticism was what Dr W. Sanday
calls ``an unreal and artificial standard, the standard of
the 19th century rather than the 1st, of Germany rather than
Palestine, of the lamp and the study rather than of active
life.'' This has a bearing, for instance, on the differences
between the three accounts of Paul's conversion in Acts.
In the recovery of a more real standard, we owe much to
men like Mommsen, Ramsay, Blass and Harnack, trained amid
other methods and traditions than those which had brought
the constructive study of Acts almost to a deadlock.

5. Date.--External evidence now points to the existence
of Acts at least as early as the opening years of the 2nd
century.  As evidence for the Third Gospel holds equally
for Acts, its existence in Marcion's day (120-140) is now
assured.  Further, the traces of it in Polycarp 6 and Ignatius
7 when taken together, are highly probable; and it is even
widely admitted that the resemblance of Acts xiii. 22, and 1
Cicm. xviii. 1, in features not found in the Psalm (lxxxix.
20) quoted by each, can hardly be accidental.  That is, Acts
was probably current in Antioch and Smyrna not later than c.
A.D. 115, and perhaps in Rome as early as c. A.D. 96.

With this view internal evidence agrees.  In spite of some
advocacy of a date prior to A.D. 70, the bulk of critical
opinion is decidedly against it.  The prologue to Luke's Gospel
itself implies the dying out of the generation of eye-witnesses
as a class.  A strong consensus of opinion supports a date
about A.D. 80; some prefer 75 to 80; while a date between
70 and 75 seems no less possible.  Of the reasons for a
date in one of the earlier decades of the 2nd century, as
argued by the Tubingen school and its heirs, several are now
untenable.  Among these are the supposed traces of 2nd-century
Gnosticism and ``hierarchical'' ideas of organization; but
especially the argument from the relation of the Roman state
to the Christians, which Ramsay has reversed and turned
into proof of an origin prior to Pliny's correspondence with
Trajan on the subject.  Another fact, now generally admitted,
renders a 2nd-century date yet more incredible; and that
is the failure of a writer devoted to Paul's memory to make
palpable use of his Epistles.  Instead of this he writes in
a fashion that seems to traverse certain things recorded in
them.  If, indeed, it were proved that Acts uses the
later works of Josephus, we should have to place the book
about A.D. 100. But this is far from being the case.

Three points of contact with Josephus in particular are cited.
(1) The circumstances attending the death of Herod Agrippa
I. in A.D. 44. Here Acts xii. 21-23 is largely parallel to
Jos. Antt. xix. 8. 2; but the latter adds an omen of coming
doom, while Acts alone gives a circumstantial account of the
occasion of Herod's public appearance.  Hence the parallel,
when analysed, tells against dependence on Josephus.  So
also with (2) the cause of the Egyptian pseudo-prophet in
Acts xxi. 37, f., Jos. Jewish War, ii. 13. 5, Antt. xx.
8. 6; for the numbers of his followers do not agree with
either of Josephus's rather divergent accounts, while Acts
alone calls them Sicarii. With these instances in mind, it
is natural to regard (3) the curious resemblance as to the
(non-historical) order in which Theudas and Judas of Galilee
are referred to in both as accidental, the more so that again
there is difference as to numbers.  Further, to make out
a case for dependence at all, one must assume the mistaken
order (as it may be) in Gamaliel's speech as due to gross
carelessness in the author of Acts--an hypothesis unlikely in
itself.  Such a mistake was far more likely to arise in oral
transmission of the speech, before it reached Luke at all.

6 Place.---The place of composition is still an open
question.  For some time Rome and Antioch have been in favour;
and Blass combined both views in his theory of two editions
(see below, Text). But internal evidence points strongly to
the Roman province of Asia, particularly the neighbourhood of
Ephesus.  Note the confident local allusion in xix. 9 to ``the
school of Tyrannus''---not ``a certain Tyrannus,'' as in the
inferior text--and in xix. 33 to ``Alexander''; also the very
minute topography in xx. 13-15.  At any rate affairs in that
region, including the future of the church of Ephesus (xx.
28-30), are treated as though they would specially interest
``Theophilus'' and his circle; also an early tradition makes
Luke die in the adjacent Bithynia.  Finally it was in this
region that there arose certain early glosses e.g. on
xix. 9, xx. 15), probably the earliest of those referred to
below.  How fully in correspondeoce with such an environment
the work would be, as apologia for the Church against
the Synagogue's attempts to influence Roman policy to its
harm, must be clear to all familiar with the strength of
Judaism in ``Asia'' (cf. Rev. ii. 9, iii. 9, and see Sir W.
M. Ramsay, The Letters to the Seven Churches, ch. xii.).

7. Text.---The apparatus criticus of Acts has grown
considerably of recent years; yet mainly in one direction,
that of the so-called ``Western text.'' This term, which our
growing knowledge, especially of the Syriac and other Eastern
versions, is rendering more and more unsatisfactory, stands
for a text which used to be connected almost exclusively with
the ``eccentric'' Codex Bezae, and is comparable to a
Targum on an Old Testament book.  But it is now recognized
to have been very widespread, in both east and west, for
some 200 years or more from as early as the middle of the 2nd
century.  The process, however, of sitting out the readings of
all our present witnesses--(Aleph MSS.), versions, Fathers
--has not yet gone far enough to yield any sure or final result
as to the history of this text, so as to show what in its extant
forms is primary, secondary, and so on.  Beginnings have been
made towards grouping our authorities; but the work must go
on much further before a solid basis for the reconstruction
of its primitive form can be said to exist.  The attempts
made at such a reconstruction, as by Blass (1895, 1897) and
Hilgenfeld (1899), are quite arbitrary.  The like must be said
even of the contribution to the problem made by August Pott,8
though he has helped to define one condition of success---the
classification of the strata in ``Western'' texts---and has
taken some steps in the right direction, in connexion with
the complex phenomena of one witness, the Harklean Syriac.

Assuming, however, that the original form of the ``Western''
text had been reached, the question of its historical value,
i.e. its relation to the original text of Acts, would yet
remain.  On this point the highest claims have been made by
Blass.  Ever since 1894 he held that both the ``Western''
text of Acts (which he styles the b text) and its rival,
the text of the great uncials (which he styles the a text),
are due to the author's own hand.  Further, that the former
(Roman) is the more original of the two, being related to the
latter (Antiochene) as fuller first draft to severely pruned
copy.  But even in its later form, that ``b stands nearer
the Grundschrift than a, but yet is, like a, a copy
from it,'' the theory is really untenable.  In sober contrast
of Blass's sweeping theory stand the views of Sir W. M.
Ramsay.  Already in The Church in the Roman Empire ( 1893
) he held that the Codex Bezae rested on a recension made
in Asia Minor (somewhere between Ephesus and S. Galatia),
not later than about the middle of the 2nd century.  Though
``some at least of the alterations in Codex Bezae arose
through a gradual process, and not through the action of
an individual reviser,'' the revision in question was the
work of a single reviser, who in his changes and additions
expressed the local interpretation put upon Acts in his own
time.  His aim, in suiting the text to the views of his day,
was partly to make it more intelligible to the public, and
partly to make it more complete.  To this end he ``added some
touches where surviving tradition seemed to contain trustworthy
additional particulars,'' such as the statement that Paul
taught in the lecture-room of Tyrannus ``from the fifth to
the tenth hour.'' In his later work, on St Paul the Traveller
and the Roman Citizen (1895), Ramsay's views gain both in
precision and in breadth.  The gain lies chiefly in seeing
beyond the Bezan text to the ``Western'' text as a whole.

Generally speaking, then, the text of Acts as printed
by Westcott and Hort, on the basis of the earliest MSS.
(alephB), seems as near the autograph as that of any
other part of the New Testament; whereas the ``Western''
text, even in its earliest traceable forms, is secondary.
This does not mean that it has no historical value of its
own.  It may well contain some true supplements to the original
text, derived from local tradition or happy inference---a
few perhaps from a written source used by Luke.  Certain of
these may even date from the end of the 1st century, and the
larger part of them are probably not later than the middle
of the 2nd. But its value lies mainly in the light cast on
ecclesiastical thought in certain quarters during the epoch in
question.  The nature of the readings themselves, and the
distribution of the witness for them, alike point to a process
involving several stages and several originating centres of
diffusion.  The classification of groups of ``Western''
witnesses has already begun.  When completed, it will cast
light, not only on the origin and growth of this type of text,
but also on the exact value of the remaining witnesses to the
original text of Acts---and further on the early handling of
New Testament writings generally. Acts, from its very scope,
was least likely to be viewed as sacrosanct as regards its
text.  Indeed there are signs that its undogmatic nature
caused it to be comparatively neglected at certain times
and places, as, e.g., Chrysostom explicitly witnesses.

LITERATURE.--An account of the extensive and varied literature
that has gathered round Acts may be found in two representative
commentaries, viz., H. H. Wendt's edition of Meyer (1899), and
that by R. J. Knowling in The Expositor's Greek Testament,
vol. ii. (1900), supplemented by his Testimony of St Paul
to Christ (1905).  See also J. Moffatt, The Historical
New Testament (1901). 412 ff., 655 ff.: C. Clemen, Die
Apostelgesch. im Lichte der neueren Forschungen (Giessen,
1905); and A. Harnack, Die Apostelgeschichte (1908). (J. V. B.)


1 This argument, first worked out by Dr W. K. Hobart,
The Medical Language of St Luke (Dublin, 1882), but
hitherto neglected by many Continental scholars, has been
urged afresh by Harnack, Lukas der Arzt (Leipzig, 1906;
Eng. trans., London, 1907), to which reference may be made
for all matters connected with Lucan authorship; comp.
also R. J. Knowling in The Expositor's Greek Testament.

2 This view has received Harnack's support, op. cit. 89 f.

3 Apostelgeschichte (1908), p46.  Harnack finds that our sense
of the trustworthiness of the book ``is enhanced by a thorough
study of the chronological procedure of its author, both where
he speaks and where he keeps silence.'' In this aspect the
book ``as a whole is according to the aims of the author and
in reality a historical work'' (p. 41; cf. pp. 1-20, 222 ff.).

4 Though this view had the support of J. B. Lightfoot, it should
be remembered that this was before the ``South Galatian'' theory
as to the date of Paul's work among the Galatians came to prevail.

5 Harnack, indeed, argues (op. cit. pp. 188 ff.) that the
Abstinences defined for Gentiles were in the original text
of Acts xv. 20 purely moral, and had no reference to Jewish
scruples as to eating blood.  He regards ``what is strangled''
(pnikton) as originally a mistaken gloss, which crept into the
text.  External evidence is against this, nor does it seem
demanded by the context; in fact xv. 21 rather goes against it.

6 Polyc. ad Philipp. i. 2, Acts ii. 24; ii. 1,
Acts x. 42; ii. 3, Acts xx. 35; vi. 3, Acts vii. 52.

7 Ign. ad Magn. v. 1, Acts i 25; ad Smyrn. iii. 3, Acts x. 41.

8 Der abendlandische Text der Apostelgeschichte
u. die Wir-quelle (Leipzig, 1900).  See a review
in the Journal of Theol.  Studies, ii. 439 ff.

ACTUARY. The name of actuarius, sc. scriba, in ancient
Rome, was given to the clerks who recorded the Acta Publica
of the senate, and also to the officers who kept the military
accounts and enforced the due fulfilment of contracts for military
supplies.  In its English form the word has undergone a gradual
limitation of meaning.  At first it seems to have denoted
any clerk or registrar; then more particularly the secretary
and adviser of any joint-stock company, but especially of
an insurance company; and it is now applied specifically to
one who makes those calculations as to the probabilities of
human life, on which the practice of life assurance and the
valuation of reversionary interests, deferred annuities, &c.,
are based.  The first mention of the word in law is in the
Friendly Societies Act of 1819, where it is used in the vague
sense, ``actuaries, or persons skilled in calculation,'' but
it has received still further recognition in the Friendly
Societies Act of 1875 and the Life Assurance Companies Act of
1870.  The word has been used with precision since the
establishment of the ``Institute of Actuaries of Great
Britain and Ireland'' in 1848.  The Quarterly Journal,
Charter of Incorporation, and by-laws of this society may
be usefully consulted for particulars as to the requirements
for membership (see also ANNUITY). The registrar in the
Lower House of Convocation is also called the actuary.

ACUMINATE (from Lat. acumen, point), sharpened or pointed,
a word used principally in botany and ornithology, to denote the
narrowing or lance-shaping of a leaf or of a bird's feather into
a point, generally at the tip, though sometimes (with regard to
a leaf) at the base.  The poet William Cowper used the word to
denote sharp and keen despair, but other authors, Sir T. Browne,
Bacon, Bulwer, &c., use it to explain a material pointed shape.

ACUNA, CHRISTOVAL DE (1597--c.1676), Spanish missionary
and explorer, was born at Burgos in 1597.  He was admitted
a Jesuit in 1612, and afterwards sent on mission work to
Chile and Peru, where he became rector of the college of
Cuenca.  In 1639 he accompanied Pedro Texiera in his second
exploration of the Amazon, in order to take scientific
observations, and dtaw up a report for the Spanish government.
The journey lasted ten months; and on the explorer's arrival in
Peru, Acuna prepared his narrative, while awaiting a ship for
Europe.  The king of Spain, Philip IV., received the author
coldly, and it is said even tried to suppress his book,
fearing that the Portuguese, who had just revolted from Spain
(1640), would profit by its information.  After occupying
the positions of procurator of the Jesuits at Rome and censor
(calificador) of the Inquisition at Madrid, Acuna returned
to South America, where he died, probably soon after 1675.
His Nuevo Descubrimiento del Gran Rio de las Amazonas was
published at Madrid in 1641; French and English translations
(the latter from the French, appeared in 1682 and 1698.

ACUPRESSURE (from Lat. acus, a needle, and premere, to
press), the name given to a method of restraining haemorrhage,
introduced by Sir J. Y. Simpson, the direct pressure of
a metallic needle, either alone or assisted by a loop of
wire, being used to close the vessel near the bleeding point.

ACUPUNCTURE (from Lat. acus, a needle, and pungere,
to prick), a form of surgical operation, performed
by pricking the part affected with a needle.  It has
long been used by the Chinese in cases of headaches,
lethargies, convulsions, colics, &c. (See SURGERY.)

ADABAZAR, an important commercial town in the Khoja Ili
sanjak of Asia Minor, situated on the old military road from
Constantinople to the east and connected by a branch line
with the Anatolian railway.  Pop. 18,000 (Moslems, 10,000;
Christians, 8000).  It was founded in 1540 and enlarged in
1608 by the settlement in it of an Armenian colony.  There
are silk and linen industries, and an export of tobacco,
walnut-wood, cocoons and vegetables for the Constantinople
market.  Imports are valued at L. 80,000 and exports at

See V. Cuinet, Turquie d'Asie (Paris, 1890--1900).

ADAD, the name of the storm-god in the Babylonian-Assyrian
pantheon, who is also known as Ramman (``the thunderer'').  The
problem involved in this double name has not yet been definitely
solved.  Evidence seems to favour the view that Ramman was
the name current in Babylonia, whereas Adad was more common in
Assyria.  To judge from analogous instances of a double
nomenclature, the two names revert to two different centres
for the cult of a storm-god, though it must be confessed
that up to the present it has been impossible to determine
where these centres were.  A god Hadad who was a prominent
deity in ancient Syria is identical with Adad, and in view
of this it is plausible to assume---for which there is also
other evidence --that the name Adad represents an importation
into Assyria from Aramaic districts.  Whether the same is
the case with Ramman, identical with Rimmon, known to us
from the Old Testament as the chief deity of Damascus, is
not certain though probable.  On the other hand the cult
of a specific storm-god in ancient Babylonia is vouched
for by the occurrence of the sign Im--the ``Sumerian'' or
ideographic writing for Adad-Ramman --as an element in proper
names of the old Babylonian period.  However this name may
have originally been pronounced, so much is certain,---that
through Aramaic influences in Babylonia and Assyria he was
identified with the storm-god of the western Semites, and
a trace of this influence is to be seen in the designation
Amurru, also given to this god in the religious literature of
Babylonia, which as an early name for Palestine and Syria
describes the god as belonging to the Amorite district.

The Babylonian storm-god presents two aspects in the hymns,
incantations and votive inscriptions.  On the one hand he
is the god who, through bringing on the rain in due season,
causes the land to become fertile, and, on the other hand, the
storms that he sends out bring havoc and destruction.  He is
pictured on monuments and seal cylinders with the lightning
and the thunderbolt, and in the hymns the sombre aspects of
the god on the whole predominate.  His association with the
sun-god, Shamash, due to the natural combination of the two
deities who alternate in the control of nature, leads to
imbuing him with some of the traits belonging to a solar
deity.  In Syria Hadad is hardly to be distinguished from
a solar deity.  The process of assimilation did not proceed
so far in Babylonia and Assyria, but Shamash and Adad became
in combination the gods of oracles and of divination in
general.  Whether the will of the gods is determined through
the inspection of the liver of the sacrificial animal, through
observing the action of oil bubbles in a basin of water or
through the observation of the movements of the heavenly
bodies, it is Shamash and Adad who, in the ritual connected
with divination, are invariably invoked.  Similarly in the
annals and votive inscriptions of the kings, when oracles are
referred to, Shamash and Adad are always named as the gods
addressed, and their ordinary designation in such instances
is bele biri, ``lords of divination.'' The consort of
Adad-Ramman is Shala, while as Amurru his consort is called
Aschratum. (See BABYLONIAN AND ASSYRIAN RELIGION.) (M. JA.)

ADAGIO (Ital. ad agio, at ease), a term in music to indicate
slow time; also a slow movement in a symphony, sonata, &c., or an
independent piece, such as Mozart's pianoforte ``Adagio in B minor.''

ADAIR, JOHN (d. 1722), Scottish surveyor and map-maker
of the 17th century.  Nothing is known of his parentage,
birthplace or early life.  His name first came before the
public in 1683, when a prospectus was published in Edinburgh
entitled An Account of the Scottish Atlas, stating
that ``the Privy Council of Scotland has appointed John
Adair, mathematician and skilfull mechanick, to survey the
shires.'' In 1686 an act of tonnage was passed in Adair's
favour.  He was then employed on a survey of the Scottish
coast and two years later was made a fellow of the Royal
Society.  Two other acts of tonnage were passed for Adair,
one in 1695 and the other in 1705.  In 1703 he published the
first part of his Description of the Sea Coasts and Islands
of Scotland, for the use of seamen.  The second part never
appeared.  He is thought to have died in London about the end of
1722.  He must have lost a considerable amount of money in
the execution of his work, and in 1723 some remuneration
was made to his widow by the government.  Some of his
work is preserved in the Advocates' Library at Edinburgh
and in the King's Library of the British Museum, London.

ADALBERON, or ASCELIN (d. 1030 or 1031), French bishop and
poet, studied at Reims and became bishop of Laon in 977. When
Laon was taken by Charles, duke of Lorraine, in 988, he was
put into prison, whence he escaped and sought the protection
of Hugh Capet, king of France.  Winning the confidence of
Charles of Lorraine and of Arnulf, archbishop of Reims, he
was restored to his see; but he soon took the opportunity
to betray Laon, together with Charles and Arnulf, into the
hands of Hugh Capet.  Subsequently he took an active part in
ecclesiastical affairs, and died on the 19th of July 1030 or
1031.  Adalberon wrote a satirical poem in the form of a
dialogue dedicated to Robert, king of France, in which he
showed his dislike of Odilo, abbot of Cluny, and his followers,
and his objection to persons of humble birth being made
bishops.  The poem was first published by H. Valois in the
Carmen panegyricum in laudem Berengarii (Paris, 1663), and
in modern times by J. P. Migne in the Patrologia Latina, tome
cxli. (Paris, 1844).  Adalberon must not be confounded with
his namesake, Adalberon, archbishop of Reims (d. 988 or 989).

See Richer, Historiarum Libri III. et IV., which appears in
the Monumenta Germaniae historica.  Scriptores. Band iii.
(Hanover and Berlin, 1826--1892); A. Olleris, OEuvres de Gerbert
pape sous le nom de Sylvestre II. (Paris, 1867); Histoire
litteraire de la France, tome vii. (Paris, 1865-1869).

ADALBERT, or ADELBERT (c. 1000-1072), German archbishop,
the most famous ecclesiastic of the 11th century, was the
son of Frederick, count of Goseck, a member of a noble Saxon
family.  He was educated for the church, and began his clerical
career at Halberstadt, where he attained to the dignity of
provost.  Having attracted the notice of the German king, Henry
III., Adalbert probably served as chancellor of the kingdom of
Italy, and in 1045 was appointed archbishop of Hamburg-Bremen,
his province including the Scandinavian countries, as well as a
larger part of North Germany.  In 1046 he accompanied Henry to
Rome, where he is said to have refused the papal chair; and in
1052 he was made legate by Pope Leo IX., and given the right
to nominate bishops in his province.  He sought to increase the
influence of his archbishopric, sent missionaries to Finland,
Greenland and the Orkney Islands, and aimed at making Bremen
a patriarchal see for northern Europe, with twelve suffragan
bishoprics.  He consolidated and increased the estates of the
church, exercised the powers of a count, denounced simony and
initiated financial reforms.  The presence of this powerful
and active personality, who was moreover a close friend
of the emperor, was greatly resented by the Saxon duke,
Bernard II., who regarded him as a spy sent by Henry into
Saxony.  Adalbert, who wished to free his lands entirely
from the authority of the duke, aroused further hostility
by an attack on the privileges of the great abbeys, and
after the emperor's death in 1056 his lands were ravaged by
Bernard.  He took a leading part in the government of
Germany during the minority of King Henry IV., and was styled
patronus of the young king, over whom he appears to have
exercised considerable influence.  Having accompanied Henry
on a campaign into Hungary in 1063, he received large gifts
of crown estates, and obtained the office of count palatine in
Saxony.  His power aroused so much opposition that in 1066 the
king was compelled to assent to his removal from court.  In
1069 he was recalled by Henry, when he made a further attempt
to establish a northern patriarchate, which failed owing to
the hostility of the papacy and the condition of affairs in
the Scandinavian kingdoms.  He died at Goslar on the 16th
or 17th of March 1072, and was buried in the cathedral which
he had built at Bremen.  Adalbert was a man of proud and
haughty bearing, with large ideas and a strong, energetic
character.  He made Bremen a city of importance, and it was
called by his biographer, Adam of Bremen, the New Rome.

See Adam of Bremen, Gesta Hammenburgensis ecclesiae pontificum,
edited by J. M. Lappenberg, in the Monumenta Germaniae
historica. Scriptores. Band vii. (Hanover and Berlin,
1826-1892); C. Grunhagen, Adalbert Erzbischof von Hamburg
und die Idee eines Nordischen Patriarchats (Leipzig, 1854).

ADALBERT (originally VOYTECH), (c. 950-997), known as
the apostle of the Prussians, the son of a Bohemian prince,
was born at Libice (Lobnik, Lubik), the ancestral seat near
the junction of the Cidlina and the Elbe.  He was educated at
the monastery of Magdeburg; and in 983 was chosen bishop of
Prague.  The extreme severity of his rule repelled the
Bohemians, whom he vainly strove to wean from their national
customs and pagan rites.  Discouraged by the ill-success of his
ministry, he withdrew to Rome until 993, when, in obedience
to the command 0f the pope, he returned to his own people.
Finding little amendment, however, in their course of living,
he soon afterwards went again to Rome, and obtained permission
from the pope to devote himself to missionary labours, which he
carried on chiefly in North Germany and Poland.  While preaching
in Pomerania (997) he was assassinated by a heathen priest.

See U. Chevalier, Repertoire des sources historiques du moyen
age, Bio.-Bibl. (1905); Bolland, Acta Sanctorum, April 23; H. G.
Voigt, Adalbert von Prag (1898), a thoroughly exhaustive monograph.

ADALIA (med. Antaliyah; the crusaders' Satalia), the
ancient Attalia (q.v.), the largest seaport on the south
coast of Asia Minor, though in point of trade it is now
second to Mersina.  The unsuitability of the harbour for
modern steamers, the bad anchorage outside and the extension
of railways from Smyrna have greatly lessened its former
importance as an emporium for west central Anatolia.  It is
not connected by a chaussee with any point outside its
immediate province, but it has considerable importance as the
administrative capital of a rich and isolated sanjak. Adalia
played a considerable part in the medieval history of the
Levant.  Kilij Arslan had a palace there.  The army of Louis
VII. sailed thence for Syria in 1148, and the fleet of Richard
of England rallied there before the conquest of Cyprus.
Conquered by the Seljuks of Konia, and made the capital of the
province of Tekke, it passed after their fall through many
hands, including those of the Venetians and Genoese, before
its final occupation by the Ottoman Turks under Murad II.
(1432).  In the 18th century, in common with most of Anatolia,
its actual lord was a Dere Bey. The family of Tekke Oglu,
domiciled near Perga, though reduced to submission in 1812
by Mahmud II., continued to be a rival power to the Ottoman
governor till within the present generation, surviving by
many years the fall of the other great Beys of Anatolia.  The
records of the Levant (Turkey) Company, which maintained an
important agency here till 1825, contain curious information
as to the local Dere Beys.  The present population of Adalia,
which includes many Christians and Jews, still living, as in
the middle ages, in separate quarters, the former round the
walled mina or port, is about 25,000.  The port is served
by coasting steamers of the local companies only.  Adalia
is an extremely picturesque, but ill-built and backward
place.  The chief thing to see is the city wall, outside which
runs a good and clean promenade.  The government offices and
the houses of the better class are all outside the walls.

See C. Lanckoronski, Villes de la Pamphylie
et de La Pisidie, i. (1890). (D.G.H.)

ADAM, the conventional name of the first created man according to the Bible.

1. The Name.---The use of ``Adam'' (mem kamatz daleth kamatz
aleph) as a proper name is an early error.  Properly the
word adam designated man as a species; with the article
prefixed (Gen. ii. 7, 8, 16, iv. 1; and doubtless il. 20, iii.
17) it means the first man.  Only in Gen. iv. 25 and v. 3-5
is adam a quasi-proper name, though LXX. and Vulgate use
``Adam'' (Adam) in this way freely.  Gen. ii. 7 suggests
a popular Hebrew derivation from adamah, ``the ground.''
Into the question whether the original story did not give
a proper name which was afterwards modified into ``Adam''
---important as this question is---we cannot here enter.

2. Creation of Adam.--For convenience, we shall take
``Adam'' as a symbol for ``the first man,'' and inquire
first, what does tradition say of his creation? In Gen. ii.
4b-8 we read thus: -``At the time when Yahweh-Elohim1
made earth and heaven,--earth was as yet without bushes, no
herbage was as yet sprouting, because Yahweh-Elohim had not
caused it to rain upon the earth, and no men were there to
till the ground, but a stream2 used to go up from the earth,
and water all the face of the ground,---then Yahweh-Elohim
formed the man of dust of the ground,3 and blew into his
nostrils breath of life,4 and the man became a living
being.  And Yahweh-Elohim planted a garden5 in Eden, eastward;
and there he put the man whom he had formed.'' (See Eve.)

How greatly this simple and fragmentary tale of Creation differs
from that in Gen. i. 1-ii. 4a (see COSMOGONY) need hardly be
mentioned.  Certainly the priestly writer who produced the
latter could not have said that God modelled the first man out
of moistened clay, or have adopted the singular account of the
formation of Eve in ii. 21-23.  The latter story in particular
(see Eve) shows us how childlike was the mind of the early
men, whose God is not ``wonderful in counsel'' (Isa. xxviii.
29), and fails in his first attempt to relieve the loneliness
of his favourite.  For no beast however mighty, no bird however
graceful, was a fit companion for God's masterpiece, and, apart
from the serpent, the animals had no faculty of speech.  All
therefore that Adam could do, as they passed before him, was
to name them, as a lord names his vassals.  But here arises a
difficulty.  How came Adam by the requisite insight and power
of observation? For as yet he had not snatched the perilous
boon of wisdom.  Clearly the Paradise story is not homogeneous.

3. How the Animals were named.---Some moderns, e.g. von
Bohlen, Ewald, Driver (in Genesis, p. 55, but cp. p. 42),
have found in ii. 19, 20 an early explanation of the origin of
language.  This is hardly right.  The narrator assumes that
Adam and Eve had an innate faculty of speech.6 They spoke just
as the birds sing, and their language was that of the race or
people which descended from them.  Most probably the object of
the story is, not to answer any curious question (such as, how
did human speech arise, or how came the animals by their names?),
but to dehort its readers or hearers from the abominable vice
referred to in Lev. xviii. 23.7 There may have been stories
in circulation like that of Ea-bani (sec.  8), and even such as
those of the Skidi Pawnee, in which ``people'' marry animals,
or become animals.  Against these it is said (ver. 20b)
that ``for Adam he found no helper (qualified) to match him.''

4. Three Riddles.---Manifold are the problems suggested
by the Eden-story (see EDEN; PARADISE). For instance, did
the original story mention two trees, or only one, of which
the fruit was taboo? bn iii. 3(cp. vv. 6, 11) only ``the
tree in the midst of the garden'' is spoken of, but in ii.
9 and iii. 22 two trees are referred to, the fruit of both
of which would appear to be taboo.  To this we must add that
in ii. 17 ``the tree of the knowledge of good and evil''
appears to have the qualities of a ``tree of life,'' except
indeed to Adam.  This passage seems to give us the key to the
mystery.  There was only one tree whose fruit was forbidden;
it might be called either ``the tree of life'' or ``the tree
of knowledge,'' but certainly not ``the tree of knowledge
of good and evil.'' 8 The words ``life'' and ``knowledge''
(= ``wisdom'') are practically equivalent; perfect knowledge
(so primitive man believed) would enable any being to
escape death (an idea spiritualized in Prov. iii. 18).

Next, which of the trees is the ``tree of life''? Various sacred
trees were known to the Semitic peoples, such as the fig-tree
(cp. iii. 7), which sometimes appears, conventionalized, as
a sacred tree.9 But clearly the tree referred to was more
than a ``sacred tree''; it was a tree from whose fruit or
juice, as culture advanced, some intoxicating drink was
produced.  The Gaokerena of the Iranians 10 is exactly
parallel.  At the resurrection, those who drink of the life-giving
juice of this plant will obtain ``perfect welfare,'' including
deathlessness.  It is not, however, either from Iran or
from India that the Hebrew tree of life is derived, but from
Arabia and Babylonia, where date-wine (cp. Enoch xxiv. 4)
is the earliest intoxicant.  Of this drink it may well have
been said in primitive times (cp. Rig Veda, ix. 90. 5, of
Soma) that it ``cheers the heart of gods'' (in the speech
of the vine, Judg. ix. 13). Later writers spoke of a ``tree
of mercy,'' distilling the ``oil of life,'' 11 i.e. the
oil that heals, but 4 Esdr. ii. 12 (cp. viii. 53) speaks
of the ``tree of life,'' and Rev. xxii. 2 (virtually) of
``trees of life,'' whose leaves have a healing virtue (cp.
Ezek. xlvii. 12). The oil-tree should doubtless be grouped
with the river of oil in later writings (see PARADISE).
Originally it was enough that there should be one tree
of life, i.e. that heightened and preserved vitality.

A third enigma---why no ``fountain of life''? The references
to such a fountain in Proverbs (xiii. 14, &c.) prove that the
idea was familiar,12 and in Rev. xxii. 1 we are told that
the river of Paradise was a ``river of water of life'' (see
PARADISE).  The serpent, too, in mythology is a regular symbol of
water.  Possibly the narrator, or redactor, desired to tone
down the traces of mythology.  Just as the Gathas (the ancient
Zoroastrian hymns) omit Gaokerena, and the Hebrew prophets
on the whole avoid mythological phrases, so this old Hebrew
thinker prunes the primitive exuberance of the traditional myth.

5. The Serpent.---The keen-witted, fluently speaking serpent
gives rise to fresh riddles.  How comes it that Adam's ruin
is effected by one of those very ``beasts of the field''
which he had but lately named (ii. 19), that in speech he is
Adam's equal and in wisdom his superior? Is he a pale form
of the Babylonian chaos-dragon, or of the serpent of Iranian
mythology who sprang from heaven to earth to blight the ``good
creation''? It is true that the serpent of Eden has mythological
affinities.  In iii. 14, 15, indeed, he is degraded into a
mere typical snake, but iii. 1-5 shows that he was not so
originally.  He is perhaps best regarded, in the light of
Arabian folk-lore, as the manifestation of a demon residing in
the tree with the magic fruit.13 He may have been a prince
among the demons, as the magic tree was a prince among the
plants.  Hence perhaps his strange boldness.  For some unknown
reason he was ill disposed towards Yahweh Elohim (See iii.
3b), which has suggested to some that he may be akin to the
great enemy of Creation.  To Adam and Eve, however, he is not
unkind.  He bids them raise themselves in the scale of being
by eating the forbidden fruit, which he declares to be not
fatal to life but an opener of the eyes, and capable of
equalizing men with gods (iii. 4, 5). To the phrase ``ye shall
be as gods'' a later writer may have added ``knowing good
and evil,'' but ``to be as gods'' originally meant ``to live
the life of gods--wise, powerful, happy.'' The serpent was
in the main right, but there is one point which he did not
mention, viz. that for any being to retain this intensified
vitality the eating of the fruit would have to be constantly
renewed.  Only thus could even the gods escape death.14

6. The Divine Command broken.---The serpent has gone the
right way to work; he comprehends woman's nature better than
Adam comprehends that of the serpent.  By her curiosity Eve is
undone.  She looks at the fruit; then she takes and eats;
her husband does the same (iii. 6). The consequence (ver. 7)
may seem to us rather slight: ``they knew (became sensible)
that they were naked, and sewed fig-leaves together, and
made themselves girdles (aprons).'' But the real meaning is
not slight; the sexual distinction has been discovered, and
a new sense of shame sends the human pair into the thickest
shades, when Yahweh-Elohim walks abroad.  The God of these
primitive men is surprised: ``Where art thou?'' By degrees,
he obtains a full confession---not from the serpent, whose
speech might not have been edifying, but from Adam and Eve.
The sentences which he passes are decisive, not only for
the human pair and the serpent, but for their respective
races.  Painful toil shall be the lot of man; subjection
and pangs that of woman.15 The serpent too (whose unique
form preoccupied the early men) shall be humiliated, as a
perpetual warning to man--who is henceforth his enemy---of
the danger of reasoning on and disobeying the will of God.

7. Versions of the Adam-story.--Theologians in all ages have
allegorized this strange narrative.16 The serpent becomes the
inner voice of temptation, and the saying in iii. 15 becomes
an anticipation of the final victory of good over evil--a view
which probably arose in Jewish circles directly or indirectly
affected by the Zoroastrian eschatology.  But allegory was
far from the thoughts of the original narrators.  Another
version of the Adam-story is given by Ezekiel (xxviii. 11-19),
for underneath the king of Tyre (or perhaps Missor)17
we can trace the majestic figure of the first man. This
Adam, indeed, is not like the first man of Gen. ii.-iii., but
more iike the ``bright angel'' who is the first man in the
Christian Book of Adam (i. 10; Malan, p. 12). He dwells on
a glorious forest-mountain (cp. Ezekiel xxxi. 8, 18), and is
led away by pride to equalize himself with Elohim (cp. xxviii.
2, 2 Thess. ii. 4), and punished.  And with this passage let
us group Job xv. 7, 8, where Job is ironically described as
vying with the first man, who was ``brought forth before the
hills'' (cp. Prov. viii. 25) and ``drew wisdom to himself''
by ``hearkening in the council of Elohim.'' No reference is
made in Job to this hero's fall.  The omission, however, is
repaired, not only in Ezek. xxviii. 16, but also in Isa. xiv.
12-15, where the king, whose name is given in the English
Bible as ``Lucifer'' (or margin, ``day-star''), ``son of
the morning,'' and who, like the other king in Ezekiel,
is threatened with death, is a copy of the mythical Adam.

The two conceptions Of the first man are widely different.
The passages last referred to harmonize with the account
given in Gen. i. 26, for ``in our image'' certainly suggests
a being equal in brightness and in capacities to the
angels---a view which, as we know, became the favourite one
in apocryphal and Haggadic descriptions of the Adam before the
Fall.  And though the priestly writer, to whom the first
Creation-story in its present form is due, says nothing about
a sacred mountain as the dwelling-place of the first-created
man, yet this mountain belongs to the type of tradition
which the passage, Gen. i. 26-28, imperfectly but truly
represents.  The glorious first man of Ezekiel, and the
god-like first men of the cosmogony (cp. Ps. viii. 5) who held
the regency of the earth,18 require a dwelling-place as far
above the common level of the earth as they are themselves
above the childlike Adam of the second creation-narrative
(Gen. ii.).  On this sacred mountain, see COSMOGONY.

8. Origin of the Adam-story---That the Hebrew story of the
first man in both its forms is no mere recast of a Babylonian
myth, is generally admitted.  The holy mountain is no doubt
Babylonian, and the plantations of sacred trees, one of
which at least has magic virtue, can be paralleled from the
monuments (see EDEN).  But there is no complete parallel
to the description of Paradise in Gen. ii., or to the story
of the rib, or to that of the serpent.  The first part of
the latter has definite Arabian affinities; the second is
as definitely Hebrew.  We may now add that the insertion
of iii. 7 (from ``were opened'') to 19---a passage which
has probably supplanted a more archaic and definitely
mythological passage---may well have been the consequence
of the change in the conception of the first man referred to
above.  Still there are four Babylonian stories which may
serve as partial illustrations of the Hebrew Adam-story.

The first is contained in a fragment of a cosmogony in
Berossus, now confirmed in the main by the sixth tablet of the
Creation-epic.  It represents the creation of man as due
to one of the inferior gods who (at Bel's command) mingled
with clay the blood which flowed from the severed head of
Bel (see COSMOGONY). The three others are the myths of
Adapa,19 Ea-bani and Etana.  As to Adapa, it may be mentioned
here that Fossey has shown reason for holding that the true
reading of the name is Adamu.  It thus becomes plausible to
hold that ``Adam'' in Gen. ii.-iii. was originally a proper
name, and that it was derived from Babylonia.  More probably,
however, this is but an accidental coincidence; both adam
and adamu may come from the same Semitic root meaning ``to
make.'' Certainly Adamu (if it is not more convenient to
write ``Adapa'') was not regarded as the progenitor of the
human race, like the Hebrew Adam.  He was, however, certainly
a man--one of those men who were not, of course, rival
first-men, but were specially created and endowed.  Adamu or
Adapa, we are told, received from his divine father the gift
of wisdom,20 but not that of everlasting life.  He had a
chance, however, of obtaining the gift, or at least of eating
the food and drinking the water which makes the gods ageless and
immortal.  But through a deceit practised upon him by his divine
father Ea, he supposed the food and drink offered to him on a
certain occasion by the gods to be ``food of death,'' ``water
of death,'' just as Adam and Eve at first believed that the
fruit of the magic tree would produce death (Gen. iii. 4, 5).

The second story is that of Ea-bani,21 who was formed by the
goddess Arusu (=the mother-goddess Ishtar) of a lump of clay (cp.
Gen. ii. 7). This human creature, long-haired and sensual, was
drawn away from a savage mode of life by a harlot, and Jastrow,
followed by G. A. Barton, Worcester and Tennant, considers this
to be parallel to the story which may underlie the account of
the failure of the beasts, and the success of the woman Eve,
as a ``help-meet'' for Adam.  This, however, is most uncertain.

The third is that of Etana.22 Here the main points are
that Etana is induced by an eagle to mount up to heaven,
that he may win a boon from the kindly goddess Ishtar.
Borne by the eagle, he soared high up into the ether, but
became afraid.  Downward the eagle and his burden fell,
and in the epic of Gilgamesh we find Etana in the nether
world.  According to Jastrow, this attempted ascension was an
offence against the gods, and his fall was his punishment.
We are not told, however, that Etana had the impious desire
of Ezekiel's first man, and if he fell, it was through his
own timidity (contrast Ezek. xxviii. 16). But certainly the
myth does help us to imagine a story in which, for some sin
against the gods, some favoured hero was hurled down from the
divine abode, and such a story may some day be discovered.

To these illustrations it is unsafe to add the scene on a
cylinder preserved in the British Museum, representing two
figures, a man (with horns) and perhaps a woman, both clothed,
on either side of a fruit-tree, towards which they stretch
out their hands.23 For the meaning of this is extremely
problematical.  Some better monumental illustration may some day be
found, for it is clear that the Babylonian sacred literature had
much to tell of offences against the gods in the primeval age.

The student may naturally ask, Whence did the Israelites (a
comparatively young people) obtain the original myth? It is most
probable that they obtained it through the mediation either of
the Canaanites or of the North Arabians.  Babylonian influence,
as is now well known, was strongly felt for many centuries
in Canaan, and even the cuneiform script was in common use
among the high officials of the country.  When the Israelites
entered Canaan, they would learn myths partly of Babylonian
origin.  North Arabian influence must also have been strong
among the Israelites, at least while they sojourned in North
Arabia.  From the Kenites, at any rate, they may have received,
not only a strong religious impulse, but a store of tales of
the primitive age, and these stoties too may have been partly
influenced by Babylonian traditions.  We must allow for stages
of development both among the Israelites and among their tutors.

9. Biblical References to the Adam-story.---It is remarkable
how little influence the Adam-story has had on the earlier
parts of the Old Testament.  The garden of Eden is referred
to in Isa. li. 3, Ezek. xxxvi, 35. Joel ii. 5; cp.  Ezek.
xxviii. 13, xxxi. 8, 9, 16, 18, all of which are later.  And
it is mostly in the ``humanistic'' book of Proverbs that we
find allusions to the ``tree of life'' (Prov. iii. 18, xi.
30, xiii. 12, xv. 4), and to the ``fountain of life''--perhaps
(see sec.  4) an omitted portion of the old Paradise story
(Prov. x. 11, xiii. 14, xiv. 27, xvi. 22),--the only other
Biblical reference (apart from Rev. xxi. 6) being in that
exquisite passage, Ps. xxxvi. 9. One can hardly be surprised at
this.  The Adam-story is plainly of foreign origin, and
could not please the greater pre-exilic prophets.  In late
post-exilic times, however, foreign tales, even if of mythical
origin, naturally came into favour, especially as religious
symbols.  If even now philosophers and theologians cannot
resist the temptation to allegorize, how inevitable was it
that this course should be pursued by early Jewish theologians!

10. Incipient Reflexion on the Story.--Let us give some
instances of this.  In Enoch lxix. 6 we find the story of
Eve's temptation read in the light of that of the fallen angels
(Gen. vi. 1, 2, 4) who conveyed an evil knowledge to men,
and so subjected mankind to mortality.  Evidently the writer
fears culture.  Elsewhere eating the fruit of the ``tree of
wisdom'' is given as the cause of the expulsion of the human
pair.  In the Wisdom of Solomon (x. 1, 2) we find another
view.  Here, as in Ezekiel, the first man is pre-eminently wise
and strong; though he transgressed, wisdom rescued him, i.e.
taught him repentance (cp. Life of Adam and Eve, sec. sec.  1-8).
Elsewhere (ii. 24; cp.  Jos. Ant. i. 1, 4) death is traced
to the envy of the devil, still implying an exalted view of
Adam.  It is held that, but for his sin, Adam would have been
immortal.  Clearly the Jewish mind is exposed to some fresh
foreign influences.  As in the Talmud and the Jerusalem
Targum, the serpent has even become the devil, i.e.
Satan.  The period of syncretism has fully come, and
Zoroastrianism in particular, more indirectly than directly,
is exercising an attractive power upon the Jews.  For all
that, the theological thinking is characteristically Jewish,
and such guidance as Jewish thinkers required was mainly given
by Greek culture.  On this subject see further EVE, sec.  5.

11. Growth of a Theology.---Let us now turn to the Apocalypses
of Baruch and of Ezra (both about 70 A.D.). Different views
are here expressed.  According to one (xvii. 3, xix. 8, xxiii.
4) the sin of Adam was the cause of physical death; according
to another (liv. 15, lvi. 6), only of premature physical
death, while according to a third (xlviii. 42, 43) it is
spiritual death which is to be laid to his account.  Of these
three views, it is only the second which harmonizes with Gen.
ii.-iii.  In one of the two passages which express it we are
also told that each member of thc human race is ``the Adam
of his own soul.'' Adam, like Satan in Ecclus. xxi; 27, has
become a psychological symbol.  Truly, a worthy development
of the seed-thoughts of the original narrator, and (must we
not add?) entirely opposed to any doctrine of Original Sin.

In 4 Ezra, too, we find no real endorsement of such a
doctrine.  It is true, not only physical death (iii. 7), but
spiritual, is traced to the act of Adam (iii. 21, 22, iv.
30, 31, vii. 118-121).  But two modifying facts should be
noticed.  One is that Adam is said to have had from the first
a wicked heart, owing to which he fell, and his posterity
likewise, into sin and guilt.  All men have the same seed of
evil in them that Adam had; they sin and die, like him.  The
other is that, according to iii. 7-12, there are at least two
ages of the world.  The first ended with the Flood, so that any
consequences of Adam's sin were, strictly speaking, of limited
duration.  The second began with righteous Noah and his
household, ``of whom came all righteous men.'' It was the
descendants of these who ``began again to do ungodliness
more than the former ones.'' Doubtless the problem of evil
is most imperfectly treated, even from the writer's point of
view.  But it would be cruel to pick holes in a writer whose
thinking, like that of St Paul, is coloured by emotion.

At this point we might well make more than a passing reference to
St Paul (Rom. v. 14; 1 Cor. xv. 22, 45, 47), whose doctrine of sin
is evidently of mixed origin.  But we cannot find space for this
here.  In compensation let it be mentioned that in Rev. xii.
9 (cp. xx. 2) the ``great dragon,'' who persecuted the woman
``clothed with the sun,'' is identified with ``the old serpent,
that is called the Devil and Satan.'' The identification is
incorrect.  But it may be noticed here that the phrase ``the
old serpent'' sheds some light on the Pauline phrases ``the
first man Adam'' and ``the last Adam'' (1 Cor. xv. 45, 47).
The underlying idea is that the new age (that of the new
heaven and earth) will be opened by events parallel to those
which opened the first age.  As the old serpent deceived
man of old, so shall it be again.  And as at the head of the
first age stands the first Adam, whose doings affected all
his descendants to their harm, so at the head of the second
shall stand the second Adam, whose actions shall be potent for
good.  There is reason to suspect that the expression ``the
second Adam'' is the coinage either of St Paul or of some one
closely connected with him (as Prof.  G. F. Moore has shown),
for there is no proof that such terms as ``the last,'' or
``the second Adam,'' were generally current among the Jews.

12. Jewish Legends.---The parallelism between the first and
second Adam in 1 Cor. xv. 45 is a parallelism of contrast.
Jewish legends, however, suggest another sort of parallelism.
The Haggadah gives the most extravagant descriptions of the
glory of Adam before his fall.  The most prominent idea is that
being in the image of God--the God whose essence is light--he
must have had a luminous body (like the angels). ``I made
thee of the light,'' says God in the Book of Adam and Eve
(Malan, p. 16), ``and I willed to bring children of light from
thee.'' Similarly in Baba batra, 58a, we read, ``he was of
extraordinary beauty and sun-like brightness.'' So glorious
was he that even the angels were commanded through Michael
to pay homage to Adam.  Satan, disobeying, was cast out of
heaven; hence his ill-will towards Adam (Life of Adam and
Eve, sec. sec.  13-17; cp. Koran, xvii. 63, xx. 115, xxxviii. 74).

It only remains to give due honour to one of the most
beautiful of legends, that of the deliverance of Adam's
spirit from the nether world by the Christ, the earliest
form of which is a Christian interpolation in Apoc.
Moses, sec.  42 (cp. Malan, Adam and Eve, iv. 15,
end).  We may compare a partly parallel passage in sec.  37,
where the agent is Michael, and notice that such legendary
developments were equally popular among Jews and Christians.

AUTHORITIES-- On the apocryphal Books of Adam, see Hort,
Dict. of Chr. Biography, i. 37 ff.  In English we have Malan's
translation of the Ethiopic Book of Adam (1882), and Issaverden's
translation of another Book of Adam from the Armenian (Venice,
1901).  In German, see Fuchs's translations in Kautzsch's Die
Apokryphen, ii. 506 ff.  For full bibliography see Schurer,
Gesch. des jud. Folkes, ed. 3, iii. 288 f.  On Jewish
and Mahommedan legends, see Jewish Cyclopaedia, ``Adam.''
On the belief in the Fall, see Tennant, The Sources of the
Doctrine of the Fall and Original Sin (1903). (T. K. C.)

1 The English Bible gives ``the LORD GOD.'' This,
however, does not adequately represent the Hebrew.

2 See commentaries of Gunkel and Cheyne.  As in
v.10, the oceanstream is meant. (See EDEN.)

3 A widely spread mythic representation. (Cp. COSMOGONY.)

4 See an illustration from Naville's Book of the
Dead (Egyptian) in Jewish Cyclopaedia, i. 174a.

5 Or park. (See PARADISE.)

6 The later Jews, however, supposed that before the Fall
the animals could speak, and that they had all one language
(Jubilees, iii. 28; Jos. Antiquities, i. I, 4).

7 Cheyne, Genesis and Exodus, referring to
Dorsey, Traditions of the Skidi Pawnee, pp. 280 ff.

8 ``Good and evil'' may be a late marginal gloss.  See
further Ency.  Bib. col. 3578, and the commentaries
(Driver leaves the phrase); also Jastrow, Relig. of.
Bab. and Ass. p. 553; Sayce, Hibbert Lectures, p. 242.

9 See illustration in Toy's Ezekiel (Sacred
Books of the Old Testament), p. 182.

10 Gaokerena is the mythic white haoma plant (Zendavesta,
Vendidad, xx. 4; Bundahish, xxvii. 4). It is an idealization
of the yellow haoma of the mountains which was used in sacrifices
(Yasna, x. 6-10).  It corresponds to the soma plant Asclepias
acida of the ancient Aryans of India.  On the illustrative value
of Gaokerena see Cheyne, Origin of the Psalter, pp. 400-439.

11 See Life of Adam and Eve (apocryphal), sec. sec.  36,
40; Apocal.  Mos. sec. 9; Secrets of Enoch, viii.
7, xxii. 8, 9. ``Oil of life,'' in a Bab. hymn, Die
Keilinschriften und das Alte Testament, ed. 3, p. 526.

12 Cp. the Bab. myths of Adapa and of the Descent of Ishtar.

13 W. R. Smith, Relig. of Semites, pp.
133, 442; Ency.  Bib., ``Serpent,''

14 Note the food and drink of the gods
in the Babylonian Adapa (or Adamu?) myth.

15 The mortality of man forms no part of
the curse (cp. iii. 19, ``dust thou art'').

16 See H. Schultz, Alttest.  Theologie, ed.
4, pp. 679 ff., 720; Driver, Genesis, p. a4.

17 See Cheyne, Genesis and Exodus.

18 The ``fair shepherd'' Yima of the Avesta (Vend.
ii.), the first man and the founder of civilization
to the Iranians,though not like the Yama of the Vedas.

19 See Jastrow, Rel. of Bab. and Ass. pp. 548-554; R. J. Harper, in
Academy, May 30, 1891; Jensen, Keilinschr.  Bibliothek, vi. 93 ff.

20 The wisdom was probably to qualify him as a
ruler.  It is too much to say with Hommel that
``Adapa is the archetype of the Johannine Logos.''

21 Jastrow, op. cit. p. 474 ff.; Jensen, Keil.  Bibl. vi. 120 ff.

22 Jastrow, p. 522 f.; Jensen, vi. 112 ff.

23 See Smith and Sayce, Chaldaean Genesis, p. 88;
Delitzsch, Wo lag das Paradies? p. 90; Babel and Bible,
Eng. trans., p. 56, with note on pp. 114-118; Zimmern,
Die Keilinschr. und das A.T., ed. 3, p. 529; Jeremias,
Das Alte Test. im Lichte d.  Alten Orient. pp. 104-106.

ADAM OF BREMEN, historian and geographer, was probably born
in Upper Saxony (at Meissen, according to one tradition) before
1045.  He came to Bremen about 1067-1068, most likely on
the invitation of Archbishop Adalbert, and in the 24th year
of the latter's episcopate (1043?-1072); in 1069 he appears
as a canon of this cathedral and master of the cathedral
school.  Not long after this he visited the king of Denmark,
Sweyn Estrithson, in Zealand; on the death of Adalbert, in
1072, he began the Historia Hammaburgenisis Ecclesiae, which
he finished about 1075.  He died on the 12th of October of a
year unknown, perhaps 1076.  Adam's Historia---known also
as Gesta Hammaburgensis Ecclesiae Pontificum, Bremensium
praesulum Historia, and Historia ecclesiastica--is
a primary authority, not only for the great diocese of
Hamburg-and-Bremen, but for all North German and Baltic lands
(down to 1072), and for the Scandinavian colonies as far as
America.  Here occurs the earliest mention of Vinland, and here
are also references of great interest to Russia and Kiev, to
the heathen Prussians, the Wends and other Slav races of the
South Baltic coast, and to Finland, Thule or Iceland, Greenland
and the Polar seas which Harald Hardrada and the nobles of
Frisia had attempted to explore in Adam's own day (before
1066).  Adam's account of North European trade at this time,
and especially of the great markets of Jumne at the mouth of
the Oder, of Birka in Sweden and of Ostrogard (Old Novgorod?)
in Russia, is also of much value.  His work, which places
him among the first and best of German annalists, consists
of four books or parts, and is compiled partly from written
records and partly from oral information, the latter mainly
gathered from experience or at the courts of Adalbert and Sweyn
Estrithson.  Of his minor informants he names several, such as
Adelward, dean of Bremen, and William the Englishman, ``bishop
of Zealand,'' formerly chancellor of Canute the Great, and
an intimate of Sweyn Estrithson.  The fourth (perhaps the
most important) book of Adam's History, Variously entitled
Libellus de Situ Daniae et reliquarum quae trans Daniam
sunt regionum, Descriptio Insularum Aquilonis, &c., has
often been considered, but wrongly, as a separate work.

Ten MSS. exist, of which the chief are (1-2) Copenhagen,
Royal Library, Old Royal Collection, No. 2296, of 12th to
13th cents.; No. 718, of 15th cent.; (3) Leyden University,
Voss.  Lat. 123, of 11th cent.; (4) Rome, Vatican Library,
2010; (5) Vienna, Hofu.  Staatsbibliothek, 413, of 13th cent.;
(6) Wolfenbuttel, Ducal Library, Gud. 83, of 15th cent.

There are 15 editions of the Historia, in whole or part; the
first published at Copenhagen, 1579 (the first of the Libellus
or Descriptio Ins. Aquil. appeared at Stockholm in 1615),
the best at Hanover, 1846 (by Lappenberg, in Scriptores Rerum
Germanicarum; reissued by L. Weiland, 1876), and at Paris,
1884 (in Migne's Patrologia Latina, cxlvi.).  There are
also three German versions, and one Danish; the best is by J.
C. M. Laurent (and W. Wattenbach) in Geschichtsschreiber d.
deutsch.  Vorzeit, part vii. (1850 and 1888) . See also J.
Asmussen, De fontibus Adami Bremensis, 1834; Lappenberg in
Pertz, Archiv, vi, 770; Aug. Bernard, De Adamo Bremensi (Paris,
1895); Beazley, Dawn of Modern Geography, ii. 514-548 (1901).

ADAM (or ADAN) DE LE HALE (died c. 1288), French
trouvere, was born at Arras.  His patronymic is generally
modernized to La Halle, and he was commonly known to his
contemporaries as Adam d'Arras or Adam le Bossu, sometimes
simply as Le Bossu d'Arras.  His father, Henri de le Hale,
was a well-known Citizen of Arras, and Adam studied grammar,
theology and music at the Cistercian abbey of Vaucelles, near
Cambrai.  Father and son had their share in the civil
discords in Arras, and for a short time took refuge in
Douai.  Adam had been destined for the church, but renounced
this intention, and married a certain Marie, who figures
in many of his songs, rondeaux, motets and jeux-partis.
Afterwards he joined the household of Robert II., count of
Artois; and then was attached to Charles of Anjou, brother
of Charles IX., whose fortunes he followed in Egypt, Syria,
Palestine and Italy.  At the court of Charles, after he
became king of Naples, he wrote his Jeu de Robin et Marion,
the most famous of his works.  He died between 1285 and
1288.  Adam's shorter pieces are accompanied by music, of which
a transcript in modern notation, with the original score, is
given in Coussemaker's edition.  His Jeu de Robin et Marion
is cited as the earliest French play with music on a secular
subject.  The pastoral, which tells how Marion resisted the
knight, and remained faithful to Robert the shepherd, is based
on an old chanson, Robin m'aime, Robin m'a. It consists
of dialogue varied by refrains already current in popular
song.  The melodies to which these are set have the character
of folk-music, and are more spontaneous and melodious than
the more elaborate music of his songs and motets.  A modern
adaptation, by Julien Tiersot, was played at Arras by a
company from the Paris Opera Comique on the occasion of a
festival in 1896 in honour of Adam de le Hale.  His other
play, Le jeu Adan or Le jeu de la Feuillee (c. 1262),
is a satirical drama in which he introduces himself, his father
and the citizens of Arras with their peculiarities.  His works
include a Conge, or satirical farewell to the city of Arras,
and an unfinished chanson de geste in honour of Charles
of Anjou, Le roi de Sicile, begun in 1282; another short
piece, Le jeu du pelerin, is sometimes attributed to him.

The only MS. which contains the whole of Adam's work is
the La Valliere MS. (No. 25,566) in the Bibliotheque
Nationale, Paris, dating from the latter half of the 13th
century.  Many of his pieces are also contained in Douce MS.
308, in the Bodleian Library, Oxford.  His OEuvres completes
(1872) were edited by E. de Coussemaker.  See also an article
by Paulin Paris in the Histoire litteraire de La France
(vol. xx. pp. 638-675); G. Raynaud, Recueil des motets
francais des XIIe et XIIIe siecles (1882); Canchons
et Partures des . . . Adan delle Hale (Halle, 1900),
a critical edition by Rudolf Berger; an edition of Adam's
two jeux in Monmerque and Michel's Theatre francais
au moyen age (1842); E. Langlois, Le jeu de Robin et
Marion (1896), with a translation in modern French; A.
Guesnon, La Satire a Arras au XIIIe, siecle (1900); and
a full bibliography of works on the subject in No. 6 of the
Bibliotheque de bibliographies critiques, by Henri Guy.

ADAM, ALEXANDER (1741-1809), Scottish writer on Roman
antiquities, was born on the 24th of June 1741, near Forres, in
Morayshire.  From his earliest years he showed uncommon diligence
and perseverance in classical studies, notwithstanding many
difficulties and privations.  In 1757 he went to Edinburgh,
where he studied at the university.  His reputation as a
classical scholar secured him a post as assistant at Watson's
Hospital and the headmastership in 1761.  In 1764 he became
private tutor to Mr Kincaid, afterwards Lord Provost of
Edinburgh, by whose influence he was appointed (in 1768) to the
rectorship of the High School on the retirement of Mr Matheson,
whose substitute he had been for some time before.  From this
period he devoted himself entirely to the duties of his office
and to the preparation of his numerous works on classical
literature.  His popularity and success as a teacher are
strikingly illustrated by the great increase in the number
of his pupils, many of whom subsequently became distinguished
men, among them being Sir Walter Scott, Lord Brougham and
Jeffrey.  He succeeded in introducing the study of Greek into
the curriculum of the school, notwithstanding the opposition
of the university headed by Principal Robertson.  In 1780 the
university of Edinburgh conferred upon him the honorary degree
of Doctor of Laws.  He died on the 18th of December 1809,
after an illness of five days, during which he occasionally
imagined himself still at work, his last words being, ``It
grows dark, boys, you may go.'' Dr Adam's first publication
was his Principles of Latin and English Grammar (1772),
which, being written in English instead of Latin, brought down
a storm of abuse upon him.  This was followed by his Roman
Antiquities (1791), A Summary of Geography and History
(1794) and a Compendious Dictionary of the Latin Tongue
(1805).  The MS. of a projected larger Latin dictionary,
which he did not live to complete, lies in the library of
the High School.  His best work was his Roman Antiquities,
which has passed through a large number of editions and
received the unusual compliment of a German translation.

See An Account of the Life and Character of A. A., by A. Henderson (1810).

ADAM, SIR FREDERICK (1781--1853), British general, was the
son of the Rt. Hon. W. Adam of Blair-Adam, lord-lieutenant of
Kinross-shire.  He was gazetted an ensign at the age of
fourteen and was subsequently educated at Woolwich.  He became
captain in 1799, and served with the Coldstream Guards in Egypt
(1801).  In 1805, having purchased the intermediate steps of
promotion, he obtained command of the 21st Foot, with which
regiment he served in the Mediterranean from 1805 to 1813, taking
part in the battle of Maida in 1806.  In 1813 he accompanied
the British corps sent to Catalonia, in which he commanded a
brigade.  He fought a gallant action at Biar (April 12,
1813), and on the following day won further distinction at
Castalla.  In the action of Ordal, on the 12th of September,
Adam received two severe wounds.  He returned to England
to recover, and was made a major-general in 1814.  At
Waterloo, Adam's brigade, of which the 52nd under Colborne
(see SEATON, LORD) formed part, shared with the Guards
the honour of repulsing the Old Guard.  For his services he
was made a K.C.B., and received also Austrian and Russian
orders.  During the long peace which followed, Sir Frederick
Adam was successively employed at Malta, in the Ionian
Islands as lord high commissioner (1824-1831) and from 1832
to 1837 as governor of Madras.  He became K.C.M.G. in 1820,
G.C.M.G. four years later, lieutenant-general in 1830, a
privy councillor in 1831, G.C.B. in 1840, and full general
in 1846.  He died suddenly on the 17th of August 1853.

ADAM, JULIETTE (1836-- ), Freneh writer, known also by her
maiden name of Juliette Lamber, was born at Verberie (Oise)
on the 4th of October 1836.  She has given an account of
her childhood, rendered unhappy by the dissensions of her
parents, in Le roman de mon enfance et de ma jeunesse (Eng.
trans., London and New York, 1902).  In 1852 she married a
doctor named La Messine, and published in 1858 her Idees
antiproudhoniennes sur l'amour, la femme et le mariage,
in defence of Daniel Stern (Mme. d'Agoult) and George
Sand.  On her husband's death she married in 1868 Antoine
Edmond Adam (1816--1877), prefect of police in 1870, and
subsequently life-senator; and she established a salon which
was frequented by Gambetta and the other republican leaders
against the conservative reaction of the 'seventies.  In the
same interest she founded in 1879 the Nouvelle Revue, which
she edited for the first eight years, and in the administration
of which she retained a preponderating influence until
1899.  She wrote the notes on foreign politics, and was
unremitting in her attacks on Bismarck and in her advocacy
of a policy of revanche. Mme. Adam was also generally
credited with the authorship of papers on various European
capitals signed ``Paul Vasili,'' which were in reality the
work of various writers.  The most famous of her numerous
novels is Paienne (1883).  Her reminiscences, Mes
premieres armes litteraires et politiques (1904) and Mes
sentiments et nos idees avant 1870 (1905), contain much
interesting gossip about her distinguished contemporaries.

ADAM, LAMBERT SIGISBERT (1700-1759), French sculptor, known
as Adam l'aine, was born in Nancy, son of Jacob Sigisbert
Adam, a sculptor of little repute.  Adam was thirty-seven
when, on his election to the Academy, he exhibited at the Salon
the model of the group of ``Neptune and Amphitrite'' for the
centre of the fountain at Versailles, and thereafter found
much employment in the decoration of the royal residences.
Among his more important works are ``Nymphs and Tritons,''
``The Triumph of Neptune stilling the Waves,'' ``Hunter with
Lion in his Net,'' a relief for the chapel of St Adelaide,
``The Seine and the Marne'' in stone for St Cloud, ``Hunting''
and ``Fishing,'' marble groups for Berlin, ``Mars embraced
by Love'' and ``The enthusiasm of Poetry.'' Adam restored
with much ability the twelve statues (Lycomedes) found in the
so-called Villa of Marius at Rome, and was elected a member
of the Academy of St Luke.  Several of his most important
works were executed for Frederick the Great in Prussia.

His brother, also a sculptor, NICOLAS SEBASTIEN ADAM
(1705-1778), known as Adam le jeune, born in Nancy, worked
under equal encouragement.  His first work of importance was
his ``Prometheus chained, devoured by a Vulture,', executed in
plaster in 1738, and carved in marble in 1763 as his ``reception
piece'' when he was elected into the Academy.  He produced
the reliefs of the ``Birth'' and ``Agony of Christ'' for the
Oratory in Paris, but his chief works are the ``Mausoleum of
Cardinal de Fleury'' and, in particular, the tomb of Catherine
Opalinska, queen of Poland (wife of King Stanislaus), at Nancy.

A third brother, FRANCOIS GASPARD BALTHASAR ADAM (1710-1761),
born in Nancy, became the first sculptor of Frederick the Great
and the head of the atelier of sculpture founded by that monarch,
and passed the greater part of his life in Berlin.  His chief
works adorn the gardens and palaces of Sans Souci and Potsdam.

The work of the brothers Adam was too ornate in style to win
the approval of the school that immediately followed them,
and found its principal opponents in Bouchardon and Pigalle.

See Dussieux, Artistes francais a l'etranger (Paris, 1855,
8vo); Archives de l'art francais, documents, vol. i. pp.
117-180, chiefly for; works executed for the king of Prussia;
Mariette, Abecedario; Emile de la Chavignerie and Auvray,
Dictionnaire general des artistes de l'ecole francaise
(Paris, 1882), mainly for works executed; Lady Dilke, French
Architects and Sculptors of the 18th century (London, 4to, 1900).

ADAM, MELCHIOR (d. 1622), German divine and biographer, was
born at Grotkau in Silesia after 1550, and educated in the
college of Brieg, where he became a Protestant.  In 1598 he went
to Heidelberg, where he held various scholastic appointments.
He wrote the biographies of a number of German scholars of
the 16th century, mostly theologians, which were published in
Heidelberg and Frankfort (5 vols., 1615--1620).  He dealt with
only twenty divines of other countries.  All his divines are
Protestants.  His industry as a biographer is commended by P.
Bayle, who acknowledges his obligations to Adam's labours; and
his biographies, though they have faults, are still useful.

ADAM, PAUL (1862- ), French novelist, was born in Paris on
the 7th of December 1862.  He was prosecuted for his first
novel, Chair molle (1885), but was acquitted.  He collaborated
with Jean Moreas in Le the chez Miranda (1886), and with
Moreas and Gustave Kahn he founded the Symboliste, coming
forward as one of the earliest defenders of symbolism.  Among
his numerous novels should be noted Le mystere des foules
(2 vols., 1895), a study in Boulangism, Lettres de Malaisie
(1897), a fantastic romance of imaginary future politics.
In 1899 he began a novel-sequence, giving the history of the
Napoleonic campaigns, the restoration and the government of Louis
Philippe, comprising La force (1899), L'enfant d'Austerlitz
(1901), La ruse (1902), and Au soleil de Juillet (1903).
In 1900 he wrote a Byzantine romance, Basile et Sophia.

ADAM, ROBERT (1728--1792), British architect, the second
son of William Adam of Maryburgh, in Fife, and the most
celebrated of four brothers, John, Robert, James and William
Adam, was born at Kirkcaldy in 1728.  For few famous men
have we so little biographical material, and contemporary
references to him are sparse.  He certainly studied at the
university of Edinburgh, and probably received his first
instruction in architecture from his father, who gave proofs of
his own skill and taste in the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary (now
demolished).  His mother was the aunt of Dr W. Robertson,
the first English historian of Charles V., and in 1750 we
find Robert Adam living with her in Edinburgh, and making one
of the brilliant literary coterie which adorned it at that
period.  Somewhere between 1750 and 1754 he visited Italy,
where he spent three years studying the remains of Roman
architecture.  There he was struck with the circumstance
that practically nothing bad survived of the Greek and Roman
masterpieces except public buildings, and; that the private
palaces, which Vitruvius and Pliny esteemed so highly, had
practically vanished.  One example of such work. however,
was extant in the ruins of Diocletian's palace at Spalato in
Dalmatia, and this he visited in July 1757, taking with him
the famous French architect and antiquary, C. L. Clerisseau,
and two experienced draughtsmen, with whose assistance,
after being arrested as a spy, he managed in five weeks to
accumulate a sufficient number of measurements and careful
plans and surveys to produce a restoration of the entire
building in a fine work which he published in 1764, The
Ruins of the Palace of Diocletian, &c. Considering the
shortness of the time occupied and the obstacles placed in
his way by the Venetian governor and the population of the
place, the result was amazing.  The influence of these studies
was apparent directly and indirectly in much of his subsequent
work, which, indeed, was in great measure founded upon them.

After his return to England he seems to have come rapidly to
the front, and in 1762 he was appointed sole architect to the
king and the Board of Works.  Six years later he resigned this
office, in which he was succeeded by his brother James,---who
however, held the office jointly with another,---and entered
parliament as member for the county of Kinross.  In 1768 he
and his three brothers leased the ground fronting the Thames,
upon which the Adelphi now stands, for L. 1200 on a ninety-nine
years' lease, and having obtained, with the assistance of
Lord Bute, the needful act of parliament, proceeded, in the
teeth of public opposition, to erect the ambitious block of
buildings which is imperishably associated with their name,
indicating its joint origin by the title Adelphi, from the
Greek adelfoi, the Brothers.  The site presented attractive
possibilities.  A steep hill led down Buckingham Street to
the river-side, and the plan was to raise against it, upon
a terrace formed of massive arches and vaults and facing
the river, a dignified quarter of fine streets and stately
buildings, suggestive of the Spalato ruins.  In spite of many
difficulties, pecuniary and otherwise (the undertaking was
completed from the proceeds of a lottery), money was raised
and the work pushed on; in five years the Adelphi terrace stood
complete, and the fine houses were eagerly sought after by
artists and men of letters.  Splendid, however, as the terrace
and its houses are, both in conception and execution, the
underground work which upholds them is perhaps more remarkable
still.  The vast series of arched vaults has been described
by a modern writer as a very town, which, during the years
that they were open, formed subterranean streets leading to
the river and its wharves.  In many places the arches stand
in double tiers.  In time these ``streets'' obtained a bad
name as the haunt of suspicious characters, and they have
long been enclosed and let as cellars.  Between 1773 and 1778
the brothers issued a fine series of folio engravings and
descriptions of the designs for many of their most important
works, which included several great public buildings and
numberless large private houses; a fine volume was published in
1822.  For the remaining years of Robert's life the practice
of the firm was the most extensive in the country; his position
was unquestioned, and when he died in 1792 he was laid to
rest in Westminster Abbey almost as a matter of course.

The art of Robert Adam was extraordinarily many-sided and
prolific, and it is difficult to give a condensed appreciation of
it.  As an architect he was strongly under Roman and Italian
influences, and his style and aims were exotic rather than
native.  But this does not detract from their merit, nor
need it diminish our estimate of his genius.  It was,
indeed, the most signal triumph of that genius that he was
able so to mould and adapt classical models as to create
a new manner of the highest charm and distinction.  Out of
simple curvilinear forms, of which he principally preferred
the oval, he evolved combinations of extraordinary grace
and variety, and these entered into every detail of his
work.  In his view the architect was intimately concerned
with the furniture and the decorations of a building, as well
as with its form and construction, and this view he carried
rigorously into practice, and with astonishing success.
Nothing was too small and unimportant for him--summer-houses
and dog-kennels came as readily to him as the vast facades
of a terrace in town or a great country house.  But he never
permitted minute details to obscure the main lines of a noble
design.  Whatever care he might have expended upon the flowing
curves of a moulding or a decoration, it was strictly kept in
its place; it contributed its share and no more to the total
effect.  He made a distinct step forward in giving shape to
the idea of imparting the unity of a single imposing structure
to a number of private houses grouped in a block which is
so characteristic a feature of modern town building, and
though at times he failed in the breadth of grasp needful
to carry out such an idea on a large scale, he has left
us some fine examples of what can be accomplished in this
direction.  A delightful but theoretically undesirable
characteristic of his work is the use of stucco.  Upon it he
moulded delicate forms in subtle and beautiful proportions.
His ``compo'' was used so successfully that the patent was
infringed: many of his moulds still exist and are in constant
use.  That most difficult feature, the column, he handled
with enthusiasm and perfect mastery; he studied and wrote of
it with minute pains, while his practice showed his graslp of
the subject by all avoidance of bare imitation of the classic
masters who first brought it to perfection.  His work might
be classic in form, but it was independently developed by
himself.  It would be impossible here to give a list of the
innumerable works which he executed.  In London, of course,
the Adelphi stands pre-eminent; the screen and gate of the
Admiralty and part of Fitzroy Square are by him, Portland
Place, and much of the older portion of Finsbury Circus,
besides whole streets of houses in the west end.  There are the
famous country houses of Lord Mansfield at Caen Wood, Highgate
and Luton Hoo, and decorations and additions to many more.

Robert Adam--with, there is reason to suspect, some help
from his brother James--has left as deep and enduring a mark
upon English furniture as upon English architecture.  Down
to his time carving was the dominant characteristic of the
mobiliary art, but thenceforward the wood-worker declined in
importance.  French influence disposed Robert Adam to the
development of painted furniture with inlays of beautiful exotic
woods, and many of his designs, especially for sideboards,
are extremely attractive, mainly by reason of their austere
simplicity.  Robert Adam was no doubt at first led to turn
his thoughts towards furniture by his desire to see his
light, delicate, graceful interiors, with their large sense
of atmosphere and their refined and finished detail, filled
with plenishings which fitted naturally into his scheme.
His own taste developed as he went on, but he was usually
extremely successful, and cabinetmakers are still reproducing
his most effective designs.  In his furniture he made lavish
use of his favourite decorative motives---wreaths and paterae,
the honeysuckle, and that fan ornament which he used so
constantly.  Thus an Adam house is a unique product of English
art.  From facade to fire-irons, from the chimneys to the
carpets, everything originated in the same order of ideas,
and to this day an Adam drawing-room is to English what
a Louis Seize room is to French art.  In nothing were the
Adams more successful than in mantelpieces and doors.  The
former, by reason of their simplicity and the readiness with
which the ``compo'' ornaments can be applied and painted,
are still made in cheap forms in great number.  The latter
were most commonly executed in a rich mahogany and are now
greatly sought after.  The extent to which the brothers
worked together is by no means clear--indeed, there is an
astonishing dearth of information regarding this remarkable
family, and it is a reproach to English art literature that
no biography of Robert Adam has ever been published.  John
Adam succeeded to his father's practice as an architect in
Edinburgh.  James Adam studied in Rome, and eventually
was closely associated with Robert; William is variously
said to have been a banker and an architect. (J. P.-B.)

ADAM, WILLIAM (1751--1839), British lawyer and politician,
eldest son of John Adam of Blair-Adam, Kinross-shire, and
nephew of the architect noticed above, was born on the 2nd
of August 1751, studied at the universities of Edinburgh
and Glasgow, and passed at the Scottish bar in 1773.  Soon
afterwards he removed to England, where he entered parliament
in 1774, and in 1782 was called to the common law bar.  He
withdrew from parliament in 1795, entered it again in 1806
as representative of the united counties of Clackmannan and
Kinross, and continued a member, with some interruptions, till
1811.  He was a Whig and a supporter of the policy of Fox. At
the English bar he obtained a very considerable practice.  He
was successively attorney and solicitor-general to the prince
of Wales, one of the managers of the impeachment of Warren
Hastings, and one of the counsel who defended the first Lord
Melville when impeached.  During his party's brief tenure of
office in 1806 he was chancellor of the duchy of Cornwall,
and was afterwards a privy councillor and lord-lieutenant of
Kinrossshire.  In 1814 he became a baron of Exchequer
in Scotland, and was chief commissioner of the newly
established jury-court for the trial of civil causes, from
1815 to 1830, when it was merged in the permanent supreme
tribunal.  He died at Edinburgh on the 17th of February 1839.

ADAMANT (from Gr. adamas, untameable), the modern diamond
(q.v.), but also a name given to any very hard substance.  The
Greek word is used by Homer as a personal epithet, and by Hesiod
for the hard metal in armour, while Theophrastus applies it
to the hardest crystal.  By an etymological confusion with the
Lat. adamare, to have an attraction for, it also came to be
associated with the loadstone; but since the term was displaced
by ``diamond'' it has had only a figurative and poetical use.

ADAMAWA, a country of West Africa, which lies roughly
between 6 deg.  and 11 deg.  N., and 11 deg.  and 15 deg.  E., about midway
between the Bight of Biafra and Lake Chad.  It is now divided
between the British protectorate of Nigeria (which includes
the chief town Yola, q.v.) and the German colony of
Cameroon.  This region is watered by the Benue, the chief
affluent of the Niger, and its tributary the Faro.  Another
stream, the Yedseram, flows north-east to Lake Chad.  The
most fertile parts of the country are the plains near the
Benue, about 800 ft. above the sea.  South and east of the
river the land rises to an elevation of 1600 ft., and is
diversified by numerous hills and groups of mountains.
These ranges contain remarkable rock formations, towers,
battlements and pinnacles crowning the hills.  Chief of these
formations is a gigantic pillar some 450 ft. high and 150 ft.
thick at the base.  It stands on the summit of a high conical
hill.  Mount Alantika, about 25 miles south-south-east of
Yola, rises from the plain, an isolated granite mass, to
the height of 6000 ft.  The country, which is very fertile
and is covered with luxuriant herbage, has many villages
and a considerable population.  Durra, ground-nuts, yams and
cotton are the principal products, and the palm and banana
abound.  Elephants are numerous and ivory is exported.  In
the eastern part of the country the rhinoceros is met with,
and the rivers swarm with crocodiles and with a curious
mammal called the ayu, bearing some resemblance to the seal.

Adamawa is named after a Fula Emir Adama, who in the early
years of the 19th century conquered the country.  To the
Hausa and Bornuese it was previously known as Fumbina (or
South-land).  The inhabitants are mainly pure negroes such
as the Durra, Batta and Dekka, speaking different languages,
and all fetish-worshippers.  They are often of a very low
type, and some of the tribes are cannibals.  Slave-trading
was still active among them in the early years of the 20th
century.  The Fula (q.v.), who first came into the country
about the 15th century as nomad herdsmen, are found chiefly
in the valleys, the pagan tribes holding the mountainous
districts.  There are also in the country numbers of Hausa,
who are chiefly traders, as well as Arabs and Kanuri from
Bornu.  The emir of Yola, in the period of Fula lordship, claimed
rights of suzerainty over the whole of Adamawa, but the country,
since the subjection of the Fula (e. 1900), has consisted of
a number of small states under the control of the British and
Germans.  Garua on the upper Benne, 65 m. east of Yola, is
the headquarters of the German administration for the region
and the chief trade centre in the north of Adamawa.  Yoko is
one of the principal towns in the south of the country, and in
the centre is the important town of Ngaundere.  After Heinrich
Barth, who explored the country in 1851, the first traveller
to penetrate Adamawa was the German, E. R. Flegel (1882).  It
has since been traversed by many expeditions, notably that of
Baron von Uechtritz and Dr Siegfried Passarge (1893--1894).

An interesting account of Adamawa, its peoples and history, is
given by Heinrich Barth in his Travels in North and Central
Africa (new edition, London, 1890), and later information is
contained in S. Passarge's Adamawa (Berlin, 1895). (See also
CAMEROON and NIGERIA, and the bibliographies there given.)

ADAMITES, or ADAMIANS, a sect of heretics that flourished
in North Africa in the 2nd and 3rd centuries.  Basing itself
probably on a union of certain gnostic and ascetic doctrines,
this sect pretended that its members were re-established
in Adam's state of original innocency.  They accordingly
rejected the form of marriage, which, they said, would never
have existed but for sin, and lived in absolute lawlessness,
holding that, whatever they did, their actions could be neither
good nor bad.  During the middle ages the doctrines of this
obscure sect, which did not itself exist long, were revived
in Europe by the Brethren and Sisters of the Free Spirit.

ADAMNAN, or ADOMNAN (c. 624-704), Irish saint and
historian, was born at Raphoe, Donegal, Ireland, about the
year 624. In 679 he was elected abbot of Hy or Iona, being
ninth in succession from the founder, St Columba.  While on
a mission to the court of King Aldfrith of Northumberland in
686, he was led to adopt the Roman rules with regard to the
time for celebrating Easter and the tonsure, and on his return
to Iona he tried without success to enforce the change upon the
monks.  He died on the 23rd of September 704. Adamnan wrote
a Life of St Columba, which, though abounding in fabulous
matter, is of great interest and value.  The best editions
are those published by W. Reeves (1857, new edit.  Edinburgh,
1874) and by J. T. Fowler (Oxford, 1894).  Adamnan's other
well-known work, De Locis Sanctis (edited by P. Geyer,
Itinera Hierosolymitana saeculi, iii.-viii., &c., 1898;
vol. 39 of Bienna Corpus Script.  Ecc. Latin) was based,
according to Bede, on information received from Arculf, a French
bishop, who, on his return from the Holy Land, was wrecked on
the west coast of Britain, and was entertained for a time at
Iona.  This was first published at Ingolstadt in 1619 by J.
Gretser, who also defended Baronius' acceptance of Arculf's
narrative against Casaubon.  An English translation by G.
J. R. Macpherson, Arculfus' Pilgrimage in the Holy Land.
was published by the Pilgrim's Text Society (London, 1889).

For full bibliography see U. Chevalier, Repert
de sources Historiques (1903), p. 40.

ADAMS, ANDREW LEITH (1827-1882), Scottish naturalist and
palaeontologist, the second son of Francis Adams of Banchory,
Aberdeen, was born on the 21st of March 1827, and was educated
to the medical profession.  As surgeon in the Army Medical
Department from 1848 to 1873, he utilized his opportunities
for the study of natural history in India and Kashmir, in
Egypt, Malta, Gibraltar and Canada.  His observations on the
fossil vertebrata of the Maltese Islands led him eventually
to give special study to fossil elephants, on which he became
an acknowledged authority.  In 1872 he was elected F.R.S.  In
1873 he was chosen professor of zoology in the Royal College of
Science, Dublin, and in 1878 professor of natural history in
Queen's College, Cork, a post which he held until the close
of his life.  He died at Queenstown on the 29th of July 1882.

PUBLICATIONS.--Notes of a Naturalist in the Nile Valley and Malta
(London, 1870); other works of travel; Monograph on the British
Fossil Elephants (Palaeontographical Soc.), (London, 1877-1881).

ADAMS, CHARLES FRANCIS (1807-1886), American diplomatist,
son of John Quincy Adams, and grandson of John Adams, was
born in Boston on the 18th of August 1807.  His father, having
been appointed minister to Russia, took him in 1809 to St
Petersburg, where he acquired a perfect familiarity with
French, learning it as his native tongue.  After eight years
spent in Russia and England, he attended the Boston Latin
School for four years, and in 1825 graduated at Harvard.  He
lived two years in the executive mansion, Washington, during
his father's presidential term, studying law and moving in
a society where he met Webster, Clay, Jackson and Randolph.
Returning to Boston, he devoted ten years to business and
study, and wrote for the North American Review. He also
undertook the management of his father's pecuniary affairs,
and actively supported him in his contest in the House of
Representatives for the right of petition and the anti-slavery
cause.  In 1835 he wrote an effective and widely read political
pamphlet, entitled, after Edmund Burke's more famous work, An
Appeal from the New to the Old Whigs. He was a member of
the Massachusetts general court from 1840 to 1845, sitting for
three years in the House of Representatives and for two years
in the Senate; and in 1846-1848 he edited a party Journal,
the Boston Whig. In 1848 he was prominent in politics as
a ``Conscience Whig,'' presiding over the Buffalo Convention
which formed the Free Soil party and nominated Martin van
Buren for president and himself for vice-president.  He was a
Republican member of the Thirty-Sixth Congress, which assembled
on the 5th of December 1859, and during the second session,
from the 3rd of December 1860 to the 4th of March 1861, he
represented Massachusetts in the Congressional Committee of
Thirty-three at the time of the secession of seven of the Southern
states.  His selection by the chairman of this committee, Thomas
Corwin, to present to the full committee certain propositions
agreed upon by two-thirds of the Republican members, and
his calm and able speech of the 31st of January 1861 in the
House, served to make him conspicuous before congress and the
country.  Together with William H. Seward, he stood for the
Republican policy of concession; and, while he was criticized
severely and charged with inconsistency in view of his record
as a ``Conscience Whig,'' he was of the same mind as President
Lincoln, willing to concede non-essentials, but holding rigidly
to the principle, properly understood, that there must be no
extension of slavery.  He believed that as the Republicans
were the victors they ought to show a spirit of conciliation,
and that the policy of righteousness was likewise one of
expediency, since it would have for its result the holding of
the border slave states with the North until the 4th of March,
when the Republicans could take possession of the government at
Washington.  With the incoming of the new administration Secretary
Seward secured for Adams the appointment of minister to Great
Britain.  So much sympathy was shown in England for the South
that his path was beset with difficulties; but his mission
was to prevent the interference of Great Britain in the
struggle; and while the work of Lincoln, Seward and Sumner,
and the cause of emancipation, tended to this end, the American
minister was insistent and unyielding, and knew how to present
his case forcibly and with dignity.  He laboured with energy
and discretion to prevent the sailing of the ``Alabama'';
and, when unsuccessful in this, he persistently urged upon
the British government its responsibility for the destruction
of American merchant vessels by the privateer.  In his own
diary he shows that underneath his calm exterior were serious
trouble and keen anxiety; and, in fact, the strain which
he underwent during the Civil War made itself felt in later
years.  Adams was instrumental in getting Lord John Russell to
stop the ``Alexandra,'' and it was his industry and pertinacity
in argument and remonstrance that induced Russell to order
the detention in September 1863 of the two ironclad rams
intended for the Confederate States.  Adams remained in England
until May 1868.  His last important work was as a member, in
1871--1872, of the tribunal of arbitration at Geneva which
disposed of the ``Alabama'' claims.  His knowledge of the
subject and his fairness of mind enabled him to render his
country and the cause of international arbitration valuable
service.  He died at Boston on the 21st of November 1886.

He edited the works of John Adams (10 vols.. 1850-1856), and
the Memoirs of John Quincy Adams (12 vols., 1874-1877).  See the
excellent biography (Boston, 1900), in the ``American Statesmen
Series,'' by his son, Charles Francis Adams, Jr. (J. F. R.)

ADAMS, HENRY (1838-- ), American historian, son of Charles
Francis Adams and grandson of John Quincy Adams, was born
in Boston, Massachusetts, on the 16th of February 1838.
He graduated at Harvard in 1858, and from 1861 to 1868 was
private secretary to his father.  From 1870 to 1877 he was
assistant professor of history at Harvard and from 1870 to 1876
was editor of the North American Review. He is considered
to have been the first (in 1874-1876) to conduct historical
seminary work in the United States.  His great work is his
History of the United States (1801 to 1817) (9 vols.,
1889--1891), which is incomparably the best work yet published
dealing with the administrations of Presidents Jefferson and
Madison.  It is particularly notable for its account of the
diplomatic relations of the United States during this period,
and for its essential impartiality.  Adams also published:
Life of Albert Gallatin (1879), John Randolph (1882)
in the ``American Statesmen Series,'' and Historical Essays
(1891); besides editing Documents Relating to New England
Federalism (1877), and the Writings of Albert Gallatin
(3 volumes, 1879).  In collaboration with his elder brother
Charles Francis Adams, Jr., he published Chapters of Erie
and Other Essays (1871), and, with H. C. Lodge, Ernest
Young and J. L. Laughlin, Essays in Anglo-Saxon Law (1876).

His elder brother, JOHN QUINCY ADAMS (1833-1894), a graduate
of Harvard (1853), practised law, and was a Democratic
member for several terms of the Massachusetts general
court.  In 1872 he was nominated for vice-president by the
Democratic faction that refused to support Horace Greeley.

Another brother, CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS, Jr. (1835- ), born
in Boston on the 27th of May 1835, graduated at Harvard in
1856, and served on the Union side in the Civil War, receiving
in 1865 the brevet of brigadier-general in the regular
army.  He was president of the Union Pacific railroad from
1884 to 1890, having previously become widely known as an
authority on the management of railways.  In 1900-1901 he
was president of the American Historical Association.  Among
his writings are: Railroads, Their Origin and Problems
(1878); Three Episodes of Massachusetts History (1892);
a biography of his father, Charles Francis Adams (1900);
Lee at Appomattox and Other Papers (1902); Theodore
Lyman and Robert Charles Winthrop, Jr., Two Memoirs
(1906); and Three Phi Beta Kappa Addresses (1907).

Another brother, BROOKS ADAMS (1848-- ), born in Quincy,
Massachusetts, on the 24th of June 1848, graduated at
Harvard in 1870, and until 1881 practised law.  His writings
include: The Emancipation of Massachusetts (1887);
The Law of Civilization and Decay (1895); America's
Economic Supremacy (1900); and The New Empire (1902).

ADAMS, HENRY CARTER (1852-- ), American economist,
was born at Davenport, Iowa, on the 31st of December
1852.  He was educated at Iowa College and Johns Hopkins
University, of which latter he was fellow and lecturer
(1880--1882).  He was afterwards a lecturer in Cornell
University, and in 1887 became professor of political economy
and finance in the university of Michigan.  He also became
statistician to the Interstate Commerce Committee and was
in charge of the transportation department in the 1900
census.  His principal works are The State in Relation to
Industrial Action (1887); Taxation in the United States,
1787 to 1816 (1884); Public Debts (1887); The Science
of Finance (1888); Economics and Jurisprudence (1897).

ADAMS, HERBERT (1858- ), American sculptor, was born at West
Concord, Vermont, on the 28th of January 1858.  He was educated
at the Worcester (Massachusetts) Institute of Technology,
and at the Massachusetts Normal Art School, and in 1885-1890
he was a pupil of Antonin Mercie in Paris.  In 1890-1898
he was an instructor in the art school of Pratt Institute,
Brooklyn, New York.  In 1906 he was elected vice-president
of the National Academy of Design, New York.  He experimented
successfully with some polychrome busts and tinted marbles,
notably in the ``Rabbi's Daughter'' and a portrait of Miss
Julia Marlowe, the actress; and he is at his best in his
portrait busts of women, the best example being the study,
completed in 1887, of Miss A. V. Pond, whom he afterwards
married.  Among his other productions are a fountain for
Fitchburg, Massachusetts (1888); a number of works for the
Congressional Library, Washington, including the bronze doors
(``Writing'') begun by Olin Warner, and the statue of Professor
Joseph Henry; memorial tablets for the Boston State House; a
memorial to Jonathan Edwards, at Northampton, Mass.; statues
of Richard Smith, the type-founder, in Philadelphia, and of
William Ellery Channing, in Boston (1902); and the Vanderbilt
memorial bronze doors for St Bartholomew's Church, New York.

ADAMS, HERBERT BAXTER (1850-1901), American historian and
educationalist, was born at Shutesbury (near Amherst),
Massachusetts, on the 16th of April 1850.  He graduated at
Amherst, at the head of his class, in 1872; and between 1873
and 1876 he studied political science, history and economics
at Gottingen, Berlin and Heidelberg, Germany, receiving
the degree of Ph.D.at Heidelberg in 1876, with the highest
honours (summa cum lande). From 1876 almost until his
death he was connected with the Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, Maryland, being in turn a fellow, an associate
in history (1878--1883), an associate professor (1883--1891)
and after 1891 professor of American and institutional
history, In addition he was lecturer on history in Smith
College, Northampton, Massachusetts, in 1878-1881, and for
many years took an active part in Chautauqua work.  In 1884,
also, he was one of the founders of the American Historical
Association, of which he was secretary until 1900.  In 1882 he
founded the ``Johns Hopkins University Studies in Historical
and Political Science,'' and at the time of his death some
forty volumes had been issued under his editorship.  After
1887 he also edited for the United States Bureau of Education
the series of monographs entitled ``Contributions to American
Educational History,'' he himself preparing the College
of William and Mary (1887), and Thomas Jefferson and
the University of Virginia (1888).  It was as a teacher,
however, that Adams rendered his most valuable services,
and many American historical scholars owe their training
and to a considerable extent their enthusiasm to him.  He
died at Amherst, Massachusetts, on the 30th of July 1901.

In addition to the monographs mentioned above, he
published: Maryland's Influence in Founding a National
Commonwealth (1877); Methods of Historical Study
(1884); Maryland's Influence upon Land Cessions to the
United States (1885); and the Life and Writings of Jared
Sparks (2 vols., Boston, 1893), his most important work.

See Herbert B. Adams: Tributes of Friends (Baltimore, 1902), extra
volume (xxiii.) of ``Studies in Historical and Political Science.''

ADAMS, JOHN (1735-1826), second president of the United
States of America, was born on the 30th of October 1735 in
what is now the town of Quincy, Massachusetts.  His father, a
farmer, also named John, was of the fourth generation in descent
from Henry Adams, who emigrated from Devonshire, England,
to Massachusetts about 1636; his mother was Susanna Boylston
Adams.  Young Adams graduated from Harvard College in 1755,
and for a time taught school at Worcester and studied law in
the office of Rufus Putnam.  In 1758 he was admitted to the
bar.  From an early age he developed the habit of writing
descriptions of events and impressions of men.  The earliest
of these is his report of the argument of James Otis in the
superior court of Massachusetts as to the constitutionality
of writs of assistance.  This was in 1761, and the argument
inspired him with zeal for the cause of the American
colonies.  Years afterwards, when an old man, Adams undertook
to write out at length his recollections of this scene; it is
instructive to compare the two accounts.  John Adams had none
of the qualities of popular leadership which were so marked a
characteristic of his second cousin, Samuel Adams; it was rather
as a constitutional lawyer that he influenced the course of
events.  He was impetuous, intense and often vehement,
unflinchingly courageous, devoted with his whole soul to the
cause he had espoused; but his vanity, his pride of opinion
and his inborn contentiousness were serious handicaps to him
in his political career.  These qualities were particularly
manifested at a later period---as, for example, during his
term as president.  He first made his influence widely felt
and became conspicuous as a leader of the Massachusetts Whigs
during the discussions with regard to the Stamp Act of 1765.
In that year he drafted the instructions which were sent by the
town of Braintree to its representatives in the Massachusetts
legislature, and which served as a model for other towns in
drawing up instructions to their representatives; in August
1765 he contributed anonymously four notable articles to the
Boston Gazette (republished separately in London in 1768
as A Dissertation on the Canon and Feudal Law), in which he
argued that the opposition of the colonies to the Stamp Act
was a part of the never-ending struggle between individualism
and corporate authority; and in December 1765 he delivered a
speech before the governor and council in which he pronounced
the Stamp Act invalid on the ground that Massachusetts being
without representation in parliament, had not assented to
it.  In 1768 fee removed to Boston, Two years later, with that
degree of moral courage which was one of his distinguishing
characteristics, as it has been of his descendants, he,
aided by Josiah Quincy, Jr., defended the British soldiers
who were arrested after the ``Boston Massacre,'' charged
with causing the death of four persons, inhabitants of the
colony.  The trial resulted in an acquittal of the officer
who commanded the detachment, and most of the soldiers;
but two soldiers were found guilty of manslaughter.  These
claimed benefit of clergy and were branded in the hand and
released.  Adams's upright and patriotic conduct in taking
the unpopular side in this case met with its just reward
in the following year, in the shape of his election to the
Massachusetts House of Representatives by a vote of 418 to 118.

John Adams was a member of the Continental Congress from 1774 to
1778.  In June 1775, with a view to promoting the union of
the colonies, he seconded the nomination of Washington as
commander-in-chief of the army.  His influence in congress was
great, and almost from the beginning he was impatient for a
separation of the colonies from Great Britain.  On the 7th
of June 1776 he seconded the famous resolution introduced by
Richard Henry Lee (q.v.) that ``these colonies are, and of
a right ought to be, free and independent states,'' and no
man championed these resolutions (adopted on the 2nd of July)
so eloquently and effectively before the congress.  On the
8th of June he was appointed on a committee with Jefferson,
Franklin, Livingston and Sherman to draft a Declaration of
Independence; and although that document was by the request
of the committee written by Thomas Jefferson, it was John
Adams who occupied the foremost place in the debate on its
adoption.  Before this question had been disposed of, Adams
was placed at the head of the Board of War and Ordnance,
and he also served on many other important committees.

In 1778 John Adams sailed for France to supersede Silas Deane
in the American commission there.  But just as he embarked that
commission concluded the desired treaty of alliance, and soon
after his arrival he advised that the number of commissioners
be reduced to one.  His advice was followed and he returned home
in time to be elected a member of the convention which framed
the Massachusetts constitution of 1780, still the organic law
of that commonwealth.  With James Bowdoin and Samuel Adams, he
formed a sub-committee which drew up the first draft of that
instrument, and most of it probably came from John Adams's
pen.  Before this work had been completed he was again sent to
Europe, having been chosen on the 27th of September 1779 as
minister plenipotentiary for negotiating a treaty of peace
and a treaty of commerce with Great Britain.  Conditions were
not then favourable for peace, however; the French government,
moreover, did not approve of the choice, inasmuch as Adams
was not sufficiently pliant and tractable and was from the
first suspicious of Vergennes; and subsequently Benjamin
Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, John Jay and Henry Laurens were
appointed to co-operate with Adams.  Jefferson, however, did
not cross the Atlantic, and Laurens took little part in the
negotiations.  This left the management of the business to the other
three.  Jay and Adams distrusted thc good faith of the French
government.  Outvoting Franklin, they decided to break their
instructions, which required them to ``make the most candid
confidential communications on all subjects to the ministers
of our generous ally, the king of France; to undertake
nothing in the negotiations for peace or truce without their
knowledge or concurrence; and ultimately to govern yourself
by their advice and opinion''; and, instead, they dealt
directly with the British commissioners, without consulting
the French ministers.  Throughout the negotiations Adams was
especially determined that the right of the United States
to the fisheries along the British-American coast should be
recognized.  Political conditions in Great Britain, at the
moment, made the conclusion of peace almost a necessity
with the British ministry, and eventually the American
negotiators were able to secure a peculiarly favourable
treaty.  This preliminary treaty was signed on the 30th of
November 1782.  Before these negotiations began, Adams had
spent some time in the Netherlands.  In July 1780 he had been
authorized to execute the duties previously assigned to Henry
Laurens, and at the Hague was eminently successful, securing
there recognition of the United States as an independent
government (April 19, 1782), and negotiating both a loan
and, in October 1782, a treaty of amity and commerce,
the first of such treaties between the United States and
foreign powers after that of February 1778 with France.

In 1785 John Adams was appointed the first of a long line of
able and distinguished American ministers to the court of St
James's.  When he was presented to his former sovereign,
George III. intimated that he was aware of Mr Adams's lack
of confidence in the French government.  Replying, Mr Adams
admitted it, closing with the outspoken sentiment: ``I must
avow to your Majesty that I have no attachment but to my own
country''--a phrase which must have jarred upon the monarch's
sensibilities.  While in London Adams published a work
entitled A Defence of the Constitution of Government of
the United States (1787).  In this work he ably combated
the views of Turgot and other European writers as to the
viciousness of the frame-work of the state governments.
Unfortunately, in so doing, he used phrases savouring of
aristocracy which offended many of his countrymen,---as in the
sentence in which he suggested that ``the rich, the well-born
and the able'' should be set apart from other men in a
senate.  Partly for this reason, while Washington had the vote
of every elector in the first presidential election of 1789,
Adams received only thirty-four out of sixty-nine.  As this
was the second largest number he was declared vice-president,
but he began his eight years in that office (1789-- 1797) with
a sense of grievance and of suspicion of many of the leading
men.  Differences of opinion with regard to the policies to be
pursued by the new government gradually led to the formation
of two well-defined political groups---the Federalists and the
Democratic-Republicans--and Adams became recognized as one of
the leaders, second only to Alexander Hamilton, of the former.

In 1796, on the refusal of Washington to accept another
election, Adams was chosen president, defeating Thomas Jefferson;
though Alexander Hamilton and other Federalists had asked that
an equal vote should be cast for Adams and Thomas Pinckney,
the other Federalist in the contest, partly in order that
Jefferson, who was elected vice-president, might be excluded
altogether, and partly, it seems, in the hope that Pinckney
should in fact receive more votes than Adams, and thus, in
accordance with the system then obtaining, be elected president,
though he was intended for the second place on the Federalist
ticket.  Adams's four years as chief magistrate (1797--1801)
were marked by a succession of intrigues which embittered
all his later life; they were marked, also, by events, such
as the passage of the Alien and Sedition Acts, which brought
discredit on the Federalist party.  Moreover, factional strife
broke out within the party itself; Adams and Hamilton became
alienated, and members of Adams's own cabinet virtually looked
to Hamilton rather than to the president as their political
chief.  The United States was, at this time, drawn into the
vortex of European complications, and Adams, instead of taking
advantage of the militant spirit which was aroused, patriotically
devoted himself to securing peace with France, much against
the wishes of Hamilton and of Hamilton's adherents in the
cabinet.  In 1800, Adams was again the Federalist candidate
for the presidency, but the distrust of him in his own
party, the popular disapproval of the Alien and Sedition
Acts and the popularity of his opponent, Thomas Jefferson,
combined to cause his defeat.  He then retired into private
life.  On the 4th of July 1826, on the fiftieth anniversary
of the adoption of the Declaration of Independence, he died at
Quincy.  Jefferson died on the same day.  In 1764 Adams had married
Miss Abigail Smith (1744-1818), the daughter of a Congregational
minister at Weymouth, Massachusetts.  She was a woman of much
ability, and her letters, written in an excellent English
style, are of great value to students of the period in which she
lived.  President John Quincy Adams was their eldest son.

AUTHORITIES.--C.  F. Adams, The Works of John Aadms, with
Life (10 vols., Boston, 1850-1856); John and Abigail Adams,
Familiar Letters during thc Revolution (Boston, 1875);
J. T. Morse, John Adams (Boston, 1885: later edition,
1899), in the ``American Statesmen Series''; and Mellen
Chamberlain, John Adams, the Statesman of the Revolution;
with other Essays and Addresses (Boston, 1898). (E. CH.)

ADAMS, JOHN COUCH (1819--1892), British astronomer, was born
at Lidcot farmhouse, Laneast, Cornwall, on the 5th of June
1819.  His father, Thomas Adams, was a tenant farmer; his
mother, Tabitha Knill Grylls, inherited a small estate at
Badharlick.  From the village school at Laneast he went, at
the age of twelve, to Devonport, where his mother's cousin,
the Rev. John Couch Grylls, kept a private school.  His
promise as a mathematician induced his parents to send him to
the university of Cambridge, and in October 1839 he entered
as a sizar at St John's College.  He graduated B.A. in 1843
as the senior wrangler and first Smith's prizeman of his
year.  While still an undergraduate he happened to read
of certain unexplained irregularities in the motion of
the planet Uranus, and determined to investigate them as
soon as possible, with a view to ascertaining whether they
might not be due to the action of a remote undiscovered
planet.  Elected fellow of his college in 1843, he at once
proceeded to attack the novel problem.  It was this: from
the observed perturbations of a known planet to deduce by
calculation, assuming only Newton's law of gravitation, the
mass and orbit of an unknown disturbing body.  By September
1845 he obtained his first solution, and handed to Professor
Challis, the director of the Cambridge Observatory, a paper
giving the elements of what he described as ``the new planet.''

On the 21st of October 1845 he left at Greenwich Observatory,
for the information of Sir George Airy, the astronomer-royal, a
similar document, still preserved among the archives.  A fortnight
afterwards Airy wrote asking for information about a point in the
solution.  Adams, who thought the query unessential, did not
reply, and Airy for some months took no steps to verify by
telescopic search the results of the young mathematician's
investiation.  Meanwhile, Leverrier, on the 10th of November
1845, presented to the French Academy a memoir on Uranus,
showing that the existing theory failed to account for its
motion.  Unaware of Adams's work, he attempted a like inquiry,
and on the 1st of June 1846, in a second memoir, gave the
position, but not the mass or orbit, of the disturbing body
whose existence was presumed.  The longitude he assigned
differed by only 1 deg.  from that predicted by Adams in the
document which Airy possessed.  The latter was struck by the
coincidence, and mentioned it to the Board of Visitors of
the Observatory, James Challis and Sir John Herschel being
present.  Herschel, at the ensuing meeting of the British
Association early in September, ventured accordingly to
predict that a new planet would shortly be discovered.
Meanwhile Airy had in July suggested to Challis that the
planet should be sought for with the Cambridge equatorial.
The search was begun by a laborious method at the end of the
month.  On the 8th and 12th of August, as afterwards
appeared, the planet was actually observed; but owing to
the want of a proper star-map it was not then recognized as
planetary.  Leverrier, still ignorant of these occurrences,
presented on the 31st of August 1846 a third memoir, giving
for the first time the mass and orbit of the new body.  He
communicated his results by letter to Dr Gane, of the Berlin
Observatory, who at once examined the suggested region of the
heavens.  On the 23rd of September he detected near the
predicted place a small star unrecorded in the map, and next
evening found that it had a proper motion.  No doubt remained
that ``Leverrier's planet'' had been discovered.  On the
announcement of the fact, Herschel and Challis made known
that Adams had already calculated the planet's elements and
position.  Airy then at length published an account of the
circumstances, and Adams's memoir was printed as an appendix
to the Nautical Almanac. A keen controversy arose in France
and England as to the merits of the two astronomers.  In the
latter country much surprise was expressed at the apathy of
Airy; in France the claims made for an unknown Englishman
were resented as detracting from the credit due to Leverrier's
achievement.  As the indisputable facts became known, the
world recognized that the two astronomers had independently
solved the problem of Uranus, and ascribed to each equal
glory.  The new planet, at first called Leverrier by F.
Arago, received by general consent the neutral name of
Neptune. Its mathematical prediction was not only an
unsurpassed intellectual feat; it showed also that Newton's
law of gravitation, which Airy had almost called in question,
prevailed even to the utmost bounds of the solar system.

The honour of knighthood was offered to Adams when Queen
Victoria visited Cambridge in 1847; but then, as on a
subsequent occasion, his modesty led him to decline it.
The Royal Society awarded him its Copley medal in 1848.  In
the same year the members of St John's College commemorated
his success by founding in the university an Adams prize, to
be given biennially for the best treatise on a mathematical
subject.  In 1851 he became president of the Royal Astronomical
Society.  His lay fellowship at St John's College came to
an end in 1852, and the existing statutes did not permit
of his re-election.  But Pembroke College, which possessed
greater freedom, elected him in the following year to a lay
fellowship, and this he held for the rest of his life.  In
1858 he became professor of mathematics at St Andrews, but
lectured only for a session, when he vacated the chair for
the Lowndean professorship of astronomy and geometry at
Cambridge.  Two years later he succeeded Challis as director
of the Observatory, where he resided until his death.

Although Adams's researches on Neptune were those which attracted
widest notice, the work he subsequently performed in relation to
gravitational astronomy and terrestrial magnetism was not less
remarkable.  Several of his most striking contributions to
knowledge originated in the discovery of errors or fallacies
in the work of his great predecessors in astronomy.  Thus
in 1852 he published new and accurate tables of the moon's
parallax, which superseded J. K. Burckhardt's, and supplied
corrections to the theories of M. C. T. Damoiseau, G. A. A.
Plana and P. G. D. de Pontecoulant.  In the following year his
memoir on the secular acceleration of the moon's mean motion
partially invalidated Laplace's famous explanation, which
had held its place unchallenged for sixty years.  At first,
Leverrier, Plana and other foreign astronomersi controverted
Adams's result; but its soundness was ultimately established,
and its fundamental importance to this branch of celestial theory
has only developed further with time.  For these researches
the Royal Astronomical Society awarded him its gold medal in
1866.  The great meteor shower of 1866 turned his attention
to the Leonids, whose probable path and period had already
been discussed by Professor H. A. Newton.  Using a powerful
and elaborate analysis, Adams ascertained that this cluster
of meteors, which belongs to the solar system, traverses an
elongated ellipse in 33 1/4 years, and is subject to definite
perturbations from the larger planets, Jupiter, Saturn and
Uranus.  These results were published in 1867.  Ten years
later, when Mr. G. W. Hill of Washington expounded a new and
beautiful method for dealing with the problem of the lunar
motions, Adams briefly announced his own unpublished work
in the same field, which, following a parallel course had
confirmed and supplemented Hill's.  In 1874-1876 he was
president of the Royal Astronomical Society for the second time,
when it fell to him to present the gold medal of the year to
Leverrier.  The determination of the constants in Gauss's
theory of terrestrial magnetism occupied him at intervals for
over forty years.  The calculations involved great labour,
and were not published during his lifetime.  They were edited
by his brother, Professor W. Grylls Adams, and appear in the
second volume of the collected Scientific Papers. Numerical
computation of this kind might almost be described as his
pastime.  The value of the constant known as Euler's, and
the Bernoullian numbers up to the 62nd, he worked out to an
unimagined degree of accuracy.  For Newton and his writings he
had a boundless admiration; many of his papers, indeed, bear
the cast of Newton's thought.  He laboured for many years at
the task of arranging and cataloguing the great collection
of Newton's unpublished mathematical writings, presented
in 1872 to the university by Lord Portsmouth, and wrote the
account of them issued in a volume by the University Press in
1888.  The post of astronomer-royal was offered him in 1881,
but he preferred to pursue his peaceful course of teaching
and research in Cambridge.  He was British delegate to the
International Prime Meridian Conference at Washington in
1884, when he also attended the meetings of the British
Association at Montreal and of the American Association at
Philadelphia.  Five years later his health gave way, and
after a long illness he died at the Cambridge Observatory
on the 21st of January 1892, and was buried in St Giles's
cemetery, near his home.  He married in 1863 Miss Eliza Bruce,
of Dublin, who survived him.  An international committee was
formed for the purpose of erecting a monument to his memory
in Westminster Abbey; and there, in May 1895, a portrait
medallion, by Albert Bruce Joy, was placed near the grave
of Newton, and adjoining the memorials of Darwin and of
Joule.  His bust, by the same sculptor, stands opposite
that of Sir John Herschel in the hall of St John's College,
Cambridge.  Herkomer's portrait is in Pembroke College; and
Mogford's, painted in 1851, is in the combination room of St
John's.  Another bust, taken in his youth, belongs to
the Royal Astronomical Society.  A memorial tablet, with
an inscription by Archbishop Benson, is placed in the
Cathedral at Truro; and Mr Passmore Edwards erected a public
institute in his honour at Launceston, near his birthplace.

The Scientific Papers of John Couch Adams, 4to, vol. i.
(1896), and vol. ii. (1900), edited by William Grylls
Adams and Ralph Allen Sampson, with a memoir by Dr J. W. L.
Glaisher, were published by the Cambridge University Press.
The first volume contains his previously published writings;
the second those left in manuscript, including the substance
of his lectures on the Lunar Theory.  A collection, virtually
complete, of Adams's papers regarding the discovery of
Neptune was presented by Mrs Adams to the library of St John's
College.  A description of them by Professor Sampson was
inserted in the Memoirs of the Royal Astronomical Society
(vol. liv. p. 143).  Consult: Month.  Notices Roy. Astr.
Soc., liii. 184; Observatory, xv. 174; Nature, xxxiv.
565, xlv. 301; Astr. Journal, No. 254; R. Grant, Hist. of
Physical Astronomy, p. 168; Edinburgh Review, No. 381, p. 72.

ADAMS, JOHN QUINCY (1767-1848), eldest son of President
John Adams, sixth president of the United States, was born
on the 11th of July 1767, in that part of Braintree that is
now Quincy, Massachusetts, and was named after John Quincy
(1689--1767), his mother's grandfather, who was for many
years a prominent member of the Massachusetts legislature.
In 1778, and again in 1780, young Adams accompanied his
father to Europe; studying in Paris in 1778-1779 and at the
university of Leiden in 1780.  In 1780, also, he began to
keep that diary which forms so conspicuous a record of the
doings of himself and his contemporaries.  In 1781, at the
age of fourteen, he accompanied Francis Dana (1743-1811),
American envoy to Russia, as his private secretary; but Dana
was not received by the Russian government, and in 1782 Adams
joined his father at Paris, where he acted as ``additional
secretary'' to the American commissioners in the negotiation
of the treaty of peace which concluded the War of American
Independence.  Instead of accompanying his father to London,
he, of his own choice, returned to Massachusetts, graduated
at Harvard College in 1787, three years later was admitted
to practise at the bar and at once opened an office in
Boston.  A series of papers written by him in which he
controverted some of Thomas Paine's doctrines in the Rights
of Man, and later another series in which he ably supported
the neutral policy of the administration toward France and
England, led to his appointment by Wnshington as minister to
the Netherlands in May 1794.  There was little for him to do
at the Hague, but in the absence of a minister at London, he
transacted certain public business with the English foreign
secretary.  In 1796 Washington appointed him minister to
Portugal, but before his departure thither his father John
Adams became president and changed his destination to Berlin
(1797).  While there, he negotiated (1799) a treaty of amity
and commerce with Prussia.  On Thomas Jefferson's election
to the presidency in 1800, the elder Adams recalled his
son, who returned home in 1801.  The next year, he was
elected to the Massachusetts senate, and in 1803 was sent to
Washington as a member of the Senate of the United States.

Up to this time, John Quincy Adams was regarded as belonging
to the Federalist party, but he now found its general policy
displeasing to him, was frowned upon, as the son of his
father, by the followers of Alexander Hamilton, and found
himself nearly powerless as an unpopular member of an unpopular
minority.  He was not now, and indeed never was, a strict party
man.  On the first important question that came before him
in the Senate, the acquisition of Louisiana, he voted with
the Republicans, regardless of the opposition of his own
section.  In December 1807 he warmly seconded Jefferson's
suggestion of an embargo and vigorously urged instant action,
saying: ``The president has recommended the measure on his high
responsibility.  I would not consider, I would not deliberate;
I would act!'' Within five hours the Senate had passed the
Embargo Bill and sent it to the House.  The support of a
measure so unpopular in New England caused him to be hated by
the Federalists there and cost him his seat in the Senate; his
successor was chosen on the 3rd of June 1808, several months
before the usual time of filling the vacancy, and five days later
Adams resigned.  In the same year he attended the Republican
congressional caucus which nominated Madison for the presidency,
and thus definitely joined the Republicans.  From 1806 to
1809 Adams was professor of rhetoric and oratory at Harvard.

In 1809 President Madison sent Adams to Russia to represent the
United States.  He arrived at St Petersburg at the psychological
moment when the tsar had made up his mind to break with
Napoleon.  Adams therefore met with a favourable reception and
a disposition to further the interests of American commerce
in every possible way.  On the outbreak of the war between
the United States and England in 1812, he was still at St
Petersburg.  In September of that year, the Russian government
suggested that the tsar was willing to act as mediator between
the two belligerents.  Madison precipitately accepted this
proposition and sent Albert Gallatin and James Bayard to act
as commissioners with Mr Adams; but England would have nothing
to do with it.  In August 1814, however, these gentlemen,
with Henry Clay and Jonathan Russell, began negotiations
with English commissioners which resulted in the signature
of the treaty of Ghent on the 24th of December of that
year.  After this Adams visited Paris, where he witnessed the
return of Napoleon from Elba, and then went to London, where,
with Henry Clay and Albert Gallatin, he negotiated (1815)
a ``Convention to Regulate Commerce and Navigation.'' Soon
afterwards he became U.S. minister to Great Britain, as his
father had been before him, and as his son, Charles Francis
Adams, was after him.  After accomplishing little in London,
he returned to the United States in the summer of 1817 to
become secretary of state in the cabinet of President Monroe.

As secretary of state, Adams played the leading part in
two most important episodes--the acquisition of Florida
and the promulgation of the Monroe Doctrine.  Ever since
the acquisition of Louisiana successive administrations
had sought to include a part at least of Florida in that
purchase.  In 1819, after long negotiations, Adams succeeded
in bringing the Spanish minister to the point of signing
a treaty in which the Spaniards abandoned all claims to
territory east of the Mississippi, and the United States
relinquished all claim to what is now known as Texas.  Before
the Spanish government ratified the treaty in 1820, Mexico,
including Texas, had thrown off allegiance to the mother
country, and the United States had occupied Florida by force of
arms.  The Monroe Doctrine (q.v.) rightly bears the name of
the president who in 1823 assumed the responsibility for its
promulgation; but it was primarily the work of John Quincy
Adams.  The eight years of Monroe's presidency (1817-1825)
are known as the ``Era of Good Feeling.'' As his second term
drew to a close, there was a great lack of good feeling among
his official advisers, three of whom--Adams, secretary of
state, Calhoun, secretary of war, and Crawford, secretary of
the treasury--aspired to succeed him in his high office.  In
addition, Henry Clay and Andrew Jackson were also candidates.
Calhoun was nominated for the Vice-presidency.  Of the other
four, Jackson received 99 electoral votes, Adams 84, Crawford
41, and Clay 37; as no one had a majority, the decision was
made by the House of Representatives, which was confined
in its choice to the three candidates who had received the
largest number of votes.  Clay, who was speaker of the House
of Representatives, and had for years assumed a censorious
attitude toward Jackson, cast his influence for Adams and
thereby secured his election on the first ballot.  A few days
later Adams offered Clay the secretaryship of state, which was
accepted.  The wholly unjust and baseless charge of ``bargain and
corruption'' followed, and the feud thus created between Adams
and Jackson greatly influenced the history of the United States.

Up to this point Adams's career had been almost uniformly
successful, but his presidency (1825--1829) was in most
respects a failure, owing to the virulent opposition of
the Jacksonians; in 1828 Jackson was elected president over
Adams.  It was during his administration that irreconcilable
differences developed between the followers of Adams and the
followers of Jackson, the former becoming known as the National
Republicans, who with the Anti-Masons were the precursors
of the Whigs.  In 1829 Adams retired to private life in the
town of Quincy; but only for a brief period, for in 1830,
largely by Anti-Masonic votes, he was elected a member of the
national House of Representatives.  On its being suggested
to him that his acceptance of this position would degrade an
ex-president, Adams replied that no person could be degraded
by serving the people as a representative in congress or, he
added, as a selectman of his town.  His service in congress
from 1831 until his death is, in some respects, the most
noteworthy part of his career.  Throughout he was conspicuous
as an opponent of the extension of slavery, though he was
never technically an abolitionist, and in particular he was
the champion in the House of Representatives of the right
of petition at a time when, through the influence of the
Southern members, this right was, in practice, denied by that
body.  His prolonged fight for the repeal of the so-called
``Gag Laws'' is one of the most dramatic contests in the
history of congress.  The agitation for the abolition of
slavery, which really began in earnest with the establishment
of the Liberator by William Lloyd Garrison in 1831, soon led
to the sending of innumerable petitions to congress for the
abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, over which
the Federal government had jurisdiction, and for other action
by congress with respect to that institution.  These petitions
were generally sent to Adams for presentation.  They aroused
the anger of the proslavery members of congress, who, in
1836, brought about the passage of the first ``Gag Rule,'' the
Pinckney Resolution, presented by Henry L. Pinckney, of South
Carolina.  It provided that all petitions relating to slavery
should be laid on the table without being referred to committee
or printed; and, in substance, this resolution was re-adopted
at the beginning of each of the immediately succeeding
sessions of congress, the Patton Resolution being adopted in
1837, the Atherton Resolution, or ``Atherton Gag,'' in 1838,
and the Twenty-first Rule in 1840 and subsequently until
repealed.  Adams contended that these ``Gag Rules'' were
a direct violation of the First Amendment to the Federal
Constitution, and refused to be silenced on the question,
fighting for repeal with indomitable courage, in spite of the
bitter denunciation of his opponents.  Each year the number of
anti-slavery petitions received and presented by him increased;
perhaps the climax was in 1837, when Adams presented a petition
from twenty-two slaves, and, when threatened by his opponents
with censure, defended himself with remarkable keenness and
ability.  At each session, also, the majority against him
decreased until in 1844 his motion to repeal the Twenty-first
Rule was carried by a vote of 108 to 80 and his battle was
won.  On the 21st of February 1848, after having suffered
a previous stroke of apoplexy, he fell insensible on the
floor of the Representatives' chamber, and two days later
died.  Few men in American public life have possessed more
intrinsic worth, more independence, more public spirit and
more ability than Adams, but throughout his political career
he was handicapped by a certain reserve, a certain austerity
and coolness of manner, and by his consequent inability to
appeal to the imaginations and affections of the people as a
whole.  He had, indeed, few intimate political or personal
friends, and few men in American history have, during
their lifetime, been regarded with so much hostility and
attacked with so much rancour hy their political opponents.

AUTHORITIES.--J.  T. Morse, John Quincy Adams (Boston, 1883;
new edition, 1899); Josiah Quincy, Memoir of the Life of, John
Quincy Adams (Boston, 1858); C. F. Adams (ed.), Memoirs of
John Quincy Adams, comprising portions of his diary from
1795 to 1848 (12 vols., Philadelphia. 1874-1877). (E. CH.)

ADAMS, SAMUEL (1722--1803), American statesman, was
born at Boston, Massachusetts, on the 27th of September
1722.  He was a second cousin to the elder John Adams.
His father, whose Christian name was also Samuel, was a
wealthy and prominent citizen of Boston, who took an active
part in the politics of the town, and was a member of the
Caucus (or Caulker's) Club, with which the political term
``caucus'' is said to have originated; his mother was Mary
Fifield.  Young Adams graduated from Harvard College in 1740,
and three years later, on attaining the degree of A.M., chose
for his thesis, ``Whether it be Lawful to resist the Supreme
Magistrate, if the Commonwealth cannot otherwise be preserved.''
Which side he took, and how the argument proceeded, is not
known, but the subject was one which well forecasted his
career.  He began the study of law in response to his father's
advice; he discontinued it in response to his mother's
disapproval.  He repeatedly failed in business, notably as
manager of a malt-house, largely because of his incessant
attention to politics; but in the Boston town-meeting he
became a conspicuous example of the efficiency of that
institution for training in statecraft.  He has, indeed, been
called the ``Man of the Town Meeting.'' About 1748 he began
to take an important part in the affairs of the town, and
became a leader in the debates of a political club which he
was largely instrumental in organizing, and to whose weekly
publication, the Public Advertiser, he contributed numerous
articles.  From 1756 to 1764 he was one of the town's
tax-collectors, but in this office he was unsuccessful,
his easy business methods resulting in heavy arrears.

Samuel Adams first came into wider prominence at the beginning
of the Stamp Act episode, in 1764, when as author of Boston's
instructions to its representatives in the general court of
Massachusetts he urged strenuous opposition to taxation by act of
parliament.  The next year he was for the first time elected to
the lower house of the general court, in which he served until
1774, after 1766 as clerk.  As James Otis's vigour and influence
declined, Adams took a more and more prominent place in the
revolutionary councils; and, contrary to the opinion of Otis
and Benjamin Franklin, he declared that colonial representation
in parliament was out of the question and advised against any
form of compromise.  Many of the Massachusetts revolutionary
documents, including the famous ``Massachusetts Resolves''
and the circular letter to the legislatures of the other
colonies, are from his pen; but owing to the fact that he
usually acted as clerk to the House of Representatives and to
the several committees of which he was a member, documents were
written by him which expressed the ideas of the committee as a
whole.  There can be no question, however, that Samuel Adams
was one of the first, if not the first, of American political
leaders to deny the legislative power of parliament and
to desire and advocate separation from the mother country.

To promote the ends he had in view he suggested non-importation,
instituted the Boston committees ofcorrespondence, urged that
a Continental Congress be called, sought out and introduced
into public service such allies as John Hancock, Joseph Warren
and Josiah Quincy, and wrote a vast number of articles for the
newspapers, especially the Boston Gazette, over a multitude of
signatures.  He was, in fact, one of the most voluminous and
influential political writers of his time.  His style is clear,
vigorous and epigrammatic; his arguments are characterized by
strength of logic, and, like those of other patriots, are, as
the dispute advances, based less on precedent and documentary
authorities and more on ``natural right.'' Although he lacked
oratorical fluency, his short speeches, like his writings,
were forceful; his plain dress and unassuming ways helped to
make him extremely popular with the common people, in whom he
had much greater faith than his cousin John had; and, above
all, he was an eminently successful manager of men.  Shrewd,
wily, adroit, unfailingly tactful, an adept in all the arts
of the politician, he is considered to have done more than any
other one man, in the years immediately preceding the War of
Independence, to mould and direct public opinion in his community.

The intense excitement which followed the ``Boston Massacre''
Adams skilfully used to secure the removal of the soldiers
from the town to a fort in the harbour.  He it was, also,
who managed the proceedings of the ``Boston Tea Party,'' and
later he was moderator of the convention of Massachusetts
towns called to protest against the Boston Port Bill.  One
of the objects of the expedition sent by Governor Thomas
Gage to Lexington (q.v.) and Concord on April 18-19,
1775, was the capture of Adams and John Hancock, temporarily
staying in Lexington, and when Gage issued his proclamation
of pardon on June 12 he excepted these two, whose offences,
he said, were ``of too flagitious a Nature to admit of
any other Consideration than that of condign Punishment.''

As a delegate to the Continental Congress, from 1774 to 1781,
Samuel Adams continued vigorously to oppose any concession to
the British government; strove for harmony among the several
colonies in the common cause; served on numerous committees,
among them that to prepare a plan of confederation; and
signed the Declaration of Independence.  But he was rather
a destructive than a constructive statesman, and his most
important service was in organizing the forces of revolution
before 1775.  In 1779 he was a member of the convention which
framed the constitution of Massachusetts that was adopted in
1780, and is still, with some amendments, the organic law of
the commonwealth and one of the oldest fundamental laws in
existence.  He was one of the three members of the sub-committee
which actually drafted that instrument; and although John Adams
is generally credited with having performed the principal part
of that task, Samuel Adams was probably the author of most of
the bill of rights.  In 1788, Samuel Adams was a member of the
Massachusetts convention to ratify the Constitution of the United
States.  When he first read that instrument he was very much
opposed to the consolidated government which it provided, but
was induced to befriend it by resolutions which were passed
at a mass meeting of Boston mechanics or ``tradesmen''---his
own firmest supporters---and by the suggestion that its
ratification should be accompanied by a recommendation of
amendments designed chiefly to supply the omission of a bill of
rights.  Without his aid it is probable that the constitution
would not have been ratified by Massachusetts.  From 1789 to
1794 Adams was lieutenant-governor of his state, and from 1794
to 1797 was governor.  After the formation of parties he became
allied with the Democratic-Republicans rather than with the
Federalists.  He died on the 2nd of October 1803, at Boston.

AUTHORITIES.--Life, and Public Services of Samuel Adams (3
vols., Boston, 1863), by W. V. Wells, Adams's great-grandson--a
valuable biography, containing a mass of information, but
noticeably biassed: J. K. Hosmer's Samuel Adams (Boston, 1885),
an excellent short biography in the ``American Statesmen Series'':
M. C. Tyler's Literary History of the American Revolution (2
vols.,New Vork, 1897): and H. A. Cushing (ed.), The Writings
of Samuel Adams (4 vols., New York, 1904-1908). (E. CH.)

ADAMS, THOMAS (d. c. 1655), English divine, was, in 1612,
``a preacher of the gospel at Willington,'' in Bedfordshire,
where he is found until 1614, and whence issued his Heaven
and Earth Reconciled, The Devil's Banquet and other
works.  In 1614-1615 he was at Wingrave, in Buckinghamshire,
probably as vicar, and published a number of works in
quick succession; in 1618 he held the preachership at St
Gregory's, under St Paul's Cathedral, and was ``observant
chaplain'' to Sir Henry Montague, the lord chief justice of
England.  These bare facts we gather from epistles-dedicatory
and epistles to the reader, and title-pages.  These epistles
show him to have been on the most friendly terms with some
of the foremost men in state and church, though his ardent
protestantism offended Laud and hindered his preferment.
his ``occasionally'' printed sermons, when collected in
1629, placed him beyond all comparison in the van of the
preachers of England, and had something to do with shaping John
Bunyan.  He equals Jeremy Taylor in brilliance of fancies,
and Thomas Fuller in wit.  Robert Southey calls him ``the
prose Shakespeare of Puritan theologians.'' His numerous works
display great learning, classical and patristic, and are unique
in their abundance of stories, anecdotes, aphorisms and puns.

His worns were edited in J. P. Nichol's Puritan
Divines, by J. Angus and T. Smith (3 vols. 8vo, 1862).

ADAMS, WILLIAM (d. 1620), English navigator, was born
at Gillingham, near Chatham, England.  When twelve years
old he was apprenticed to the seafaring life, afterwards
entering the British navy, and later serving the Company
of Barbary merchants for a number of years as master and
pilot.  Attracted by the Dutch trade with India, he shipped
as pilot major with a little fleet of five ships despatched
from the Texel in 1598 by a company of Rotterdam merchants.
The vessels, boats ranging from 75 to 250 tons and crowded
with men, were driven to the coast of Guinea, where the
adventurers attacked the island of Annabon for supplies,
and finally reached the straits of Magellan.  Scattered
by stress of weather the following spring the ``Charity,''
with Adams on board, and the ``Hope,'' met at length off
the coast of Chile, where the captains of both vessels lost
their lives in an encounter with the Indians.  In fear of the
Spaniards, the remaining crews determined to sail across the
Pacific.  On this voyage the ``Hope'' was lost, but in April
1600 the ``Charity,'' with a crew of sick and dying men, was
brought to anchor off the island of Kiushiu, Japan.  Adams was
summoned to Osaka and there examined by Iyeyasu, the guardian
of the young son of Taiko Sama, the ruler, who had just
died.  His knowledge of ships and shipbuilding, and his nautical
smattering of mathematics, raised him in the estimation of the
shogun, and he was subsequently presented with an estate at
Hemi near Yokosuka; but was refused permission to return to
England.  In 1611 news came to him of an English settlement
in Bantam, and he wrote asking for help.  In 1613 Captain
John Saris arrived at Hirado in the ship ``Clove'' with the
object of establishing a trading factory for the East India
Company, and after obtaining the necessary concessions from
the shogun, Adams postponed his voyage home (permission for
which had now been given him) in order to take a leading part,
under Richard Cocks, in the organization of this new English
settlement.  He had already married a Japanese woman, by
whom he had a family, and the latter part of his life was
spent in the service of the English trading company, for
whom he undertook a number of voyages to Siam in 1616, and
Cochin China in 1617 and 1618.  He died on the 16th of May
1620, some three years before the dissolution of the English
factory.  His Japanese title was Anjin Sama, and his memory was
preserved in the naming of a street in Yedo, Anjin Cho (Pilot
Street), and by an annual celebration on June 15 in his honour.

See England's Earliest Intercourse with Japan, by C. W.
Hillary (1905; Letters written by the English Residents in
Japan, ed. by N. Murakami (1900, containing Adams's Letters
reprinted from Memorials of the Empire of Japan, ed. by T.
Rundall, Hakluyt Society, 1850); Diary of Richard Cocks,
with preface by N. Murakami (1899, reprinted from the Hakluyt
Society ed. 1883); R. Hildreth's Japan (1835); J. Harris's
Navigantium atque Itinerantium Bibliotheca (1764), i.
856; Voyage of John Saris, ed. by Sir E. M. Satow (Hakluyt
Society, 1900); Asiatic Society of Japan Transactions, xxvi.
(sec. 1898) pp. 1 and 194, where four more hitherto unpublished
letters of Adams are given; Collection of State Papers; East
Indies, China and Japan. The MS. of his logs written during his
voyages to Siam and China is in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.

ADAMS, a township in the extreme N. of Berkshire county,
N.W. Massachusetts, U.S.A., having an area of 23 sq. m.  Pop.
(1880) 5591; (1890) 9213; (1900) 11,134, of whom 4376 were
foreign-born; (1910, census) 13,026.  It includes a portion
of the valley of the Hoosac river, extending to the Hoosac
Range on the E., and on the W. to Mt. Williams (3040 ft.),
and Grey'lock Mountain (3535 ft ), partly in Williamstown,
and the highest point in the state.  The valley portion is
level and contains several settlement centres, the largest
of which, a busy industrial village (manufactures of cotton
and paper), bears the same name as the township, and is on
a branch of the Boston and Albany railroad.  The village
is the nearest station to Greylock, which can be easily
ascended, and affords fine views of the Hoosac and Housatonic
valleys, the Berkshire Hills and the Green Mountains;
the mountain has been a state timber reservation since
1898.  The township's principal industry is the manufacture
of cotton goods, the value of which in 1905 ($4,621,261) was
84.1% of the value of the township's total factory products;
in 1905 no other place in the United States showed so high
a degree of specialization in this industry.  The township
(originally ``East Hoosuck'') was surveyed and defined in
1749.  Fort Massachusetts, at one time within its bounds,
was destroyed in 1746 by the French.  An old Indian trail
between the Hudson and Connecticut valley ran through the
township, and was once a leading outlet of the Berkshire
country.  Adams was incorporated in 1778, and was named in
honour of Samuel Adams, the revolutionary leader.  Part of
Adams was included in the new township of Cheshire in 1793,
and North Adams was set off as a separate township in 1878.

ADAM'S APPLE, the movable projection, more prominent in
males than females, formed in the front part of the throat by
the thyroid cartilage of the larynx.  The name was given from
a legend that a piece of the forbidden fruit lodged in Adam's
throat.  The ``Adam's apple'' is one of the particular points of
attack in the Japanese system of self-defence known as jiu-jitsu.

ADAM'S BRIDGE, or RAMA'S BRIDGE, a chain of sandbanks
extending from the island of Manaar, near the N.W. coast of
Ceylon to the island of Rameswaram, off the Indian coast,
and lying between the Gulf of Manaar on the S.W. and Palk
Strait on the N.E. It is more than 30 m. long and offers
a serious impediment to navigation.  Some of the sandbanks
are dry; and no part of the shoal has a greater depth than 3
or 4 ft. at high water, except three tortuous and intricate
channels which have recently been dredged to a sufficient
depth to admit the passage of vessels, so as to obviate the
long journey round the island of Ceylon which was previously
necessary.  Geological evidence shows that this gap was
once bridged by a continuous isthmus which according to
the temple records was breached by a violent storm in
1480.  Operations for removing the obstacles in the channel
and for deepening and widening it were begun as long ago as
1838.  A service of the British India Steam Navigation
Company's steamers has been established between Negapatam
and Colombo through Palk Strait and this narrow passage.

ADAM SCOTUS (d. 1180), theological writer, sometimes called
Adam Anglicus or Anglo-Scotus, was born in the south of
Scotland in the first half of the 12th century.  About 1150 he
was a Premonstratensian canon at St Andrews, and some twenty
years later abbot and bishop of Candida Casa (Whithorn) in
Galloway.  He gained a European reputation for his writings,
which are of mystico-ascetic type, and include an account
of the Premonstratensian order, a collection of festival
sermons, and a Soliloquia de instructione discipuli,
formerly attributed to his contemporary, Adam of St Victor.

ADAMSON, PATRICK (1537--1592), Scottish divine, archbishop
of St Andrews, was born at Perth.  He studied philosophy, and
took the degree of M.A. at St Andrews.  After being minister
of Ceres in Fife for three years, in 1566 he set out for
Paris as tutor to the eldest son of Sir James Macgill, the
clerk-general.  In June of the same year he wrote a Latin poem
on the birth of the young prince James, whom he described as
serenissimus princeps of France and England.  The French
court was offended, and he was confined for six months.  He
was released only through the intercession of Queen Mary of
Scotland and some of the principal nobility, and retired with
his pupil to Bourges.  He was in this city at the time of
the massacre of St Bartholomew at Paris, and lived concealed
for seven months in a public-house, the aged master of which,
in reward for his charity to a heretic, was thrown from the
roof.  While in this ``Sepulchre,', he wrote his Latin
poetical version of the book of Job, and his tragedy of
Herod in the same language.  In 1572 or 1573 he returned to
Scotland, and became minister of Paisley.  In 1575 he was
appointed by the General Assembly one of the commissioners
to settle the jurisdiction and policy of the church; and the
following year he was named, with David Lindsay, to report
their proceedings to the earl of Morton, then regent.  In
1576 his appointment as archbishop of St Andrews gave rise
to a protracted conflict with the Presbyterian party in the
Assembly.  He had previously published a catechism in Latin
verse dedicated to the king, a work highly approved even by
his opponents, and also a Latin translation of the Scottish
Confession of Faith.  In 1578 he submitted himself to the
General Assembly, which procured him peace for a little time,
but next year fresh accusations were brought against him.  He
took refuge in St Andrews Castle, where ``a wise woman,'' Alison
Pearson, who was ultimately burned for witchcraft, cured him
of a serious illness.  In 1583 he went as James's ambassador
to the court of Elizabeth, and is said to have behaved rather
badly.  On his return he took strong parliamentary measures
against Presbyterians, and consequently, at a provincial
synod held at St Andrews in April 1586, he was accused of
heresy and excommunicated, but at the next General Assembly
the sentence was remitted as illegal.  In 1587 and 1588,
however, fresh accusations were brought against him, and he
was again excommunicated, though afterwards on the inducement
of his old opponent, Andrew Melville, the sentence was again
remitted.  Meanwhile he had published the Lamentations of
Jeremiah, and the book of Revelation in Latin verse, which
he dedicated to the king, complaining of his hard usage.
But James was unmoved by his application, and granted the
revenue of his see to the duke of Lennox.  For the rest
of his life Adamson was supported by charity; he died in
1592.  His recantation of Episcopacy (1590) is probably
spurious.  Adamson was a man of many gifts, learned and
eloquent, but with grave defects of character.  His collected
works, prefaced by a fulsome panegyric, in the course of which
it is said that ``he was a miracle of nature, and rather seemed
to be the immediate production of God Almighty than born of a
woman,'' were produced by his son-in-law, Thomas Wilson, in 1619.

ADAMSON, ROBERT (1852-1902), Scottish philosopher, was born
in Edinburgh on the 19th of January 1852.  His father was a
solicitor, and his mother was the daughter of Matthew Buist,
factor to Lord Haddington.  In 1855 Mrs Adamson was left a
widow with small means, and devoted herself entirely to the
education of her six children.  Of these, Robert was successful
from the first.  At the end of his school career he entered
the university of Edinburgh at the age of fourteen, and four
years later graduated with first-class honours in mental
philosophy, with prizes in every department of the faculty of
Arts.  He completed his university successes by winning the
Tyndall-Bruce scholarship, the Hamilton fellowship (1872),
the Ferguson scholarship (1872) and the Shaw fellowship
(1873).  After a short residence at Heidelberg (1871), where
he began his study of German philosophy, he returned to
Edinburgh as assistant first to Henry Calderwood and later to
A. Campbell Fraser; he joined the staff of the Encyclopaedia
Britannica (9th ed.) (1874) and studied widely in the Advocates'
Library.  In 1876 he came to England as successor to W. S.
Jevons in the chair of logic and philosophy, at Owens College,
Manchester.  In 1883 he received the honorary degree of
LL.D.  In 1893 he went to Aberdeen, and finally in 1895
to the chair of logic at Glasgow, which he held till his
death on the 5th of February 1902.  His wife, Margaret
Duncan, the daughter of a Manchester merchant, was a woman
of kindred tastes, and their union was entirely happy.

It is matter for regret to the student that Adamson's active
labours in the lecture room precluded him from systematic
production.  His writings consisted of short articles, of which
many appeared in the Encyclopaedia Britannica (9th ed.) and
in Mind, a volume on Kant and another on Fichte.  At the
time of his death he was writing a History of Psychology,
and had promised a work on Kant and the Modern Naturalists.
Both in his life and in his writings he was remarkable for
impartiality.  It was his peculiar virtue that he could quote
his opponents without warping their meaning.  From this point
of view he would have been perhaps the first historian of
philosophy of his time, had his professional labours been less
exacting.  Except during the first few years at Manchester,
he delivered his lectures without manuscripts.  In 1903,
under the title The Development of Modern Philosophy and
Other Essays, his more important lectures were published
with a short biographical introduction by Prof.  W. R.
Sorley of Cambridge University (see Mind, xiii. 1904, p. 73
foll.).  Most of the matter is taken verbatim from the
note-book of one of his students.  Under the same editorship
there appeared, three years later, his Development of Greek
Philosophy. In addition to his professional work, he did much
administrative work for Victoria University and the university of
Glasgow.  In the organization of Victoria University he took
a foremost part, and, as chairman of the Board of Studies
at Owens College, he presided over the general academical
board of the Victoria University.  At Glasgow he was soon
elected one of the representatives on the court, and to him
were due in large measure the extension of the academical
session and the improved equipment of the university.

Throughout his lectures, Adamson pursued the critical and
historical method without formulating a constructive theory of his
own.  He felt that any philosophical advance must be based on
the Kantian methods.  It was his habit to make straight for
the ultimate issue, disregarding half-truths and declining
compromise.  He left a hypothesis to be worked out by
others; this done, he would criticize with all the rigour of
logic, and with a profound distrust of imagination, metaphor
and the attitude known as the will-to-believe.  As he grew
older his metaphysical optimism waned.  He felt that the
increase of knowledge must come in the domains of physical
science.  But this empirical tendency as regards science
never modified his metaphysical outlook.  He has been called
Kantian and Neo-Kantian, Realist and Idealist (by himself,
for he held that appearance and reality are co-extensive and
coincident).  At the same time, in his criticism of other views
he was almost typical of Hegelian idealism.  All processes
of reasoning or judgment (i.e. all units of thought) are
(1) analysable only by abstraction, and (2) are compound of
deduction and induction, i.e. rational and empirical.  An
illustration of his empirical tendency is found in his attitude
to the Absolute and the Self.  The ``Absolute'' doctrines he
regarded as a mere disguise of failure, a dishonest attempt
to clothe ignorance in the pretentious garb of mystery.  The
Self as a primary, determining entity, he would not therefore
admit.  He represented an empiricism which, so far from
refuting, was actually based on, idealism, and yet was alert to
expose the fallacies of a particular idealist construction (see
his essay in Ethical Democracy, edited by Dr Stanton Coit).

ADAM'S PEAK, a mountain in Ceylon, about 45 miles E. from
Colombo, in N. lat. 6 deg.  55', E. long. 80 deg.  30'. It rises
steeply to a height of 7352 feet, and commands a magnificent
prospect.  Its conical summit terminates in an oblong platform,
74 ft. by 24, on which there is a hollow, resembling the form
of a human foot, 5 ft. 4 in. by 2 ft. 6 in.; and this has been
consecrated as the footprint of Buddha.  The margin of this
supposed footprint is ornamented with gems, and a wooden canopy
protects it from the weather.  It is held in high veneration
by the Sinhalese, and numerous pilgrims ascend to the sacred
spot, where a priest resides to receive their offerings and
bless them on their departure.  By the Mahommedans the impression
is regarded as that of the foot of Adam, who here, according
to their tradition, fulfilled a penance of one thousand
years; while the Hindus claim it as that of their god Siva.

ADANA. (1) A vilayet in the S.E. of Asia Minor, which
includes the ancient Cilicia.  The mountain districts are rich
in unexploited mineral wealth, and the fertile coast-plain,
which produces cotton, rice, cereals, sugar and much fruit,
and affords abundant pasturage, is well watered by the rivers
that descend from the Taurus range.  Imports and exports pass
through Mersina (q.v.). (2) The chief town of the vilayet,
situated in the alluvial plain about 30 m. from the sea in
N. lat. 37 deg.  1', E. long. 35 deg.  18', on the right bank of
the Seihan (Sihun, anc.  Sarus), which is navigable by small
craft as far as the town.  Adana is connected with Tersus and
Mersina by a railway built in 1887, and has a magnificent stone
bridge, which carries the road to Missis and the east, and
dates in parts from the time of Justinian, but was restored
first in 743 A.D. and called Jisr al-Walid after the
Omayyad caliph of that name, and again in 840 hy the Caliph
Mutasim.  There are, also, a ruined castle founded by Harun
al-Rashid in 782, fine fountains, good buildings, river-side
quays, cotton mills and an American mission with church and
schools.  Adana, which retains its ancient name, rose to
importance as a station on the Roman military road to the East,
and was at one time a rival of Tarsus.  The town was largely
rebuilt by Mansur in 758, and during subsequent centuries
it often changed hands and suffered many vicissitudes.  Its
position, commanding the passage of the mountains to the north
of Syria, rendered it important as a military station in the
contest between the Egyptians and the Turks in 1832.  After the
defeat of the Turkish army at Konia it was granted to Ibrahim
Pasha, and though the firman announcing his appointment named
him only muhassil, or collector of the crown revenue, it
continued to be held by the Egyptians till the treaty of July
1840 restored it to the Porte.  The chief productions of the
province are cotton, corn, sesame and wool, which are largely
exported.  The population of the town is greatly mixed, and,
having a large element of nomads in it, varies much from time to
time.  At its maximum it reaches nearly 50,000. (D. G. H.)

ADANSON, MICHEL (1727-1806), French naturalist, of Scottish
descent, was born on the 7th of April 1727, at Aix, in
Provence.  After leaving the College Sainte Barbe in
Paris, he was employed in the cabinets of R. A. F. Reaumur
and Bernard de Jussieu, as well as in the Jardin des
Plantes.  At the end of 1748 he left France on an exploring
expedition to Senegal, which from the unhealthiness of its
climate was a terra incognita to naturalists.  His ardour
remained unabated during the five years of his residence in
Africa.  He collected and described, in greater or less detail,
an immense number of animals and plants; collected specimens
of every object of commerce; delineated maps of the country;
made systematic meteorological and astronomical observations;
and prepared grammars and dictionaries of the languages spoken
on the banks of the Senegal.  After his return to Paris in
1754 he made use of a small portion of the materials he had
collected in his Histoire naturelle du Senegal (Paris,
1757).  This work has a special interest from the essay on
shells, printed at the end of it, where Adanson proposed his
universal method, a system of classification distinct from
those of Buffon and Linnaeus.  He founded his classification
of all organized beings on the consideration of each individual
organ.  As each organ gave birth to new relations, so he
established a corresponding number of arbitrary arrangements.
Those beings possessing the greatest number of similar organs
were referred to one great division, and the relationship was
considered more remote in proportion to the dissimilarity of
organs.  In 1763 he published his Familles naturelles des
plantes. In this work he developed the principle of arrangement
above mentioned, which, in its adherence to natural botanical
relations, was based on the system of J. P. Tournefort, and
had been anticipated to some extent nearly a century before
by John Ray. The success of this work was hindered by its
innovations in the use of terms, which were ridiculed by
the defenders of the popular sexual system of Linnaeus; but
it did much to open the way for the establishment, by means
principally of A. L. de Jussieu's Genera Plantarum (1789),
of the natural method of the classification of plants.  In
1774 Adanson submitted to the consideration of the Academy of
Sciences an immense work, extending to all known beings and
substances.  It consisted of 27 large volumes of manuscript,
employed in displaying the general relations of all these
matters, and their distribution; 150 volumes more, occupied
with the alphabetical arrangement of 40,000 species; a
vocabulary, containing 200,000 words, with their explanations;
and a number of detached memoirs, 40,000 figures and 30,000
specimens of the three kingdoms of nature.  The committee
to which the inspection of this enormous mass was entrusted
strongly recommended Adanson to separate and publish all
that was peculiarly his own, leaving out what was merely
compilation.  He obstinately rejected this advice; and
the huge work, at which he continued to labour, was never
published.  He had been elected a member of the Academy
of Sciences in 1759, and he latterly subsisted on a small
pension it had conferred on him.  Of this he was deprived in
the dissolution of the Academy by the Constituent Assembly,
and was consequently reduced to such a depth of poverty as
to be unable to appear before the French Institute when it
invited him to take his place among its members.  Afterwards
he was granted a pension sufficient to relieve his simple
wants.  He died at Paris after months of severe suffering, on
the 3rd of August 1806, requesting, as the only decoration of
his grave, a garland of flowers gathered from the fifty-eight
families he had differentiated--``a touching though transitory
image,'' says Cuvier, ``of the more durable monument which
he has erected to himself in his works.'' Besides the books
already mentioned he published papers on the ship-worm, the
baobab tree, the Adansonia digitata of Linnaeus, the origin
of the varieties of cultivated plants, and gum-producing trees.

ADAPTATION (from Lat. adaptare, to fit to), a process of
fitting, or modifying, a thing to other uses, and so altering
its form or original purpose.  In literature there may be,
e.g., an adaptation of a novel for a drama, or in music an
arrangement of a piece for two hands into one for four, &c. In
biology, according to the doctrine of evolution, adaptation
plays a prominent part as the process by which an organism or
species of organisms becomes modified to suit the conditions
of its life.  Every change in a living organism involves
adaptation; for in all cases life consists in a continuous
adjustment of internal to external relations.  Every living
organism reacts to its environment; if the reaction is
unfavourable, disability leading to ultimate extinction is the
result.  If the reaction is favourable, its result is called an
adaptation.  How far such adaptations are produced afresh in
each generation, whether or no their effects are transmitted
to descendants and so directly modify the stock, to what extent
adaptations characteristic of a species or variety have come
about by selection of individuals capable, in each generation,
of responding favourably, or how far by the selection of
individuals fortuitously suitable to the environment, or, how
far, possibly by the inheritance of the responses to the
environment, are problems of biology not yet definitely solved.

ADDA (anc. Addua), a river of North Italy.  Its true
source is in some small lakes near the head of the Fraele
glen, but its volume is increased by the union with several
smaller streams, near the town of Bormio, at the Raetian
Alps.  Thence it flows first S.W., then due W., through
the fertile Valtellina (q.v.), passing Tirano, where the
Poschiavino falls in on the right, and Sondrio, where is
the junction with the Malero, right.  It falls into the
Lake of Como, at its northern end, and mainly forms that
fake.  On issuing from its south-eastern or Lecco arm, it
crosses the plain of Lombardy, and finally, after a course
of about 150 m., joins the Po, 8 m. above Cremona.  The lower
course of the Adda was formerly the boundary between the
territories of Venice and of Milan; and on its banks several
important battles have been fought, notably that of Lodi,
where Napoleon defeated the Austrians in 1796. (W. A. B. C.)

ADDAMS, JANE (1860- ), American sociologist, was born at
Cedarville, Illinois, on the 6th of September 1860.  After
graduating at Rockford (Illinois) Female Seminary (now
Rockford College) in 1881, she spent several years in the
study of economic and sociological questions in both Europe and
America, and in 1889 with Miss Ellen Gates Starr established
in Chicago, Illinois, the social settlement known as Hull
House, of which she became the head-worker.  The success of
this settlement, which became a great factor for good in the
city, was principally due to Miss Addams's rare executive
skill and practical common-sense methods.  Her personal
participation in the life of the community is exemplified
in her acceptance of the office of inspector of streets and
alleys under the municipal government.  She became widely
known as a lecturer and writer on social problems and published
Democracy and Social Ethics (1902), Newer Ideals of Peace
(1907), and The Spirit of Youth and the City Streets (1909).

ADDAX, a genus of antelopes, with one species (A.
nasomaculatus) from North Africa and Arabia.  It is a little
over 3 ft. high, yellowish white in colour, with a brown mane
and a fringe of the same hue on the throat.  Both sexes carry
horns, which are ringed and form an open spiral.  The addax
is a desert antelope, and in habits probably resembles the
gemsbuck.  It is hunted by the Arabs for its flesh and to test
the speed of their horses and greyhounds; it is during these
hunting parties that the young are captured for menagerie purposes.

ADDER, a name for the common viper ( Vipera cevus), ranging
from Wales to Saghalien island, and from Caithness to the north
of Spain.  The puff-adder (Bitis s.  Echidna arietans) of
nearly the whole of Africa, and the death-adder (Acanthophis
antarcticus) from Australia to the Moluccas, are both very
poisonous (see VIPER). The word was in Old Eng. noedre,
later nadder or naddre; in the 14th century ``a nadder''
was, like ``a napron,'' wrongly divided into ``an adder.'' It
appears with the generic meaning of ``serpent'' in the older
forms of many Teutonic languages, cf.  Old High Ger. natra;
Goth. nadrs. It is thus used in the Old Eng. version of
the Scriptures for the devil, the ``serpent'' of Genesis.

ADDISON, JOSEPH (1672-1719), English essayist, poet and
man of letters, eldest son of Lancelot Addison, later dean of
Lichfield, was born at his father's rectory of Milston in
Wiltshire, on the 1st of May 1672.  After having passed through
several schools, the last of which was the Charterhouse, he
went to Oxford when he was about fifteen years old.  He was
first entered a commoner of Queen's College, but after two
years was elected to a demyship of Magdalen College, having
been recommended by his skill in Latin versification.  He
took his master's degree in 1693, and subsequently obtained
a fellowship which he held until 1711.  His first literary
efforts were poetical, and, after the fashion of his day, in
Latin.  Many of these are preserved in the Musae Anglicanae
(1691-1699), and obtained academic commendation from academic
sources.  But it was a poem in the third volume of Dryden's
Miscellanies, followed in the next series by a translation
of the fourth Georgic, which brought about his introduction
to Tonson the bookseller, and (probably through Tonson) to Lord
Somers and Charles Montagu.  To both of these distinguished
persons he contrived to commend himself by An Account of the
Greatest English Poets (1694), An Address to King William
(1695), after Namur, and a Latin poem entitled Pax Gulielmi
(1697), on the peace of Ryswick, with the result that in 1699
he obtained a pension of L. 300 a year, to enable him (as he
afterwards said in a memorial addressed to the crown) ``to
travel and qualify himself to serve his Majesty.'' In the
summer of 1699 he crossed into France, where, chiefly for
the purpose of learning the language, he remained till the
end of 1700; and after this he spent a year in Italy.  In
Switzerland, on his way home, he was stopped by receiving
notice that he was to attend the army under Prince Eugene,
then engaged in the war in Italy, as secretary from the
king.  But his Whig friends were already tottering in their
places; and in March 1702 the death of King William at once drove
them from power and put an end to the pension.  Indeed Addison
asserted that he never received but one year's payment of it,
and that all the other expenses of his travels were defrayed by
himself.  He was able, however, to visit a great part of
Germany, and did not reach Holland till the spring of 1703.  His
prospects were now sufficiently gloomy: he entered into treaty,
oftener than once, for an engagement as a travelling tutor;
and the correspondence in one of these negotiations has been
preserved.  Tonson had recommended him as the best person
to attend in this character Lord Hertford, the son of the
duke of Somerset, commonly called ``The Proud.'' The duke, a
profuse man in matters of pomp, was economical in questions of
education.  He wished Addison to name the salary he expected;
this being declined, he announced, with great dignity, that
in addition to travelling expenses he would give a hundred
guineas a year; Addison accepted the munificent offer, saying,
however, that he could not find his account in it otherwise
than by relying on his Grace's future patronage; and his Grace
immediately intimated that he would look out for some one
else.  In the autumn of 1703 Addison returned to England.

The works which belong to his residence on the continent were the
earliest that showed hm to have attained maturity of skill and
genius.  There is good reason for believing that his tragedy of
Cato, whatever changes it may afterwards have suffered, was
in great part written while he lived in France, that is, when
he was about twenty-eight years of age.  In the winter of 1701,
amidst the stoppages and discomforts of a journey across Mt.
Cenis, he composed, wholly or partly, his rhymed Letter from
Italy to Charles Montagu.  This contains some fine touches
of description, and is animated by a noble tone of classical
enthusiasm.  While in Germany he wrote his Dialogues on
Medals, which, however, were not published till after his
death.  These have much liveliness of style and something of
the gay humour which the author was afterwards to exhibit more
strongly; but they show little either of antiquarian learning
or of critical ingenuity.  In tracing out parallels between
passages of the Roman poets and figures or scenes which appear
in ancient sculptures, Addison opened the easy course of
inquiry which was afterwards prosecuted by Spence; and this,
with the apparatus of spirited metrical translations from the
classics, gave the work a likeness to his account of his
travels.  This account, entitled Remarks on Several Parts of
Italy, &c. (1705), he sent home for publication before his own
return.  It wants altogether the interest of personal narrative:
the author hardly ever appears.  The task in which he chiefly
busies himsell is that of exhibiting the illustrations which the
writings of the Latin poets, and the antiquities and scenery of
Italy, mutually give and receive.  Christian antiquities and
the monuments of later Italian history had no interest for him.

With the year 1704 begins a second era in Addison's life, which
extends to the summer of 1710, when his age was thirty-eight.
This was the first term of his official career; and though very
barren of literary performance, it not only raised him from
indigence, but settled definitely his position as a public
man.  His correspondence shows that, while on the continent,
he had been admitted to confidential intimacy by diplomatists
and men of rank; immediately on his return he was enrolled
in the Kit-Cat Club, and brought thus and otherwise into
communication with the gentry of the Whig party.  Although
all accounts agree in representing him as a shy man, he was
at least saved from all risk of making himself disagreeable
in society, by his unassuming manners, his extreme caution
and that sedulous desire to oblige, which his satirist Pope
exaggerated into a positive fault.  His knowledge and ability
were esteemed so highly as to confirm the expectations formerly
entertained of his usefulness in public business; and the
literary fame he had already acquired soon furnished an occasion
for recommending him to public employment.  Though the Whigs
were out of office, the administration which succeeded them
was, in all its earlier changes, of a complexion so mixed and
uncertain that the influence of their leaders was not entirely
lost.  Not long after Marlborough's great victory at Blenheim,
it is said that Godolphin, the lord treasurer, expressed to
Lord Halifax a desire to have the great duke's fame extended
by a poetical tribute.  Halifax seized the opportunity
of recommending Addison as the fittest man for the duty;
stipulating, we are told, that the service should not be
unrewarded, and doubtless satisfying the minister that his
protege possessed other qualifications for office besides
dexterity in framing heroic verse. The Campaign (December
1704), the poem thus written to order, was received with
extraordinary applause; and it is probably as good as any
that ever was prompted by no more worthy inspiration.  It
has, indeed, neither the fiery spirit which Dryden threw into
occasional pieces of the sort, nor the exquisite polish that
would have been given by Pope, if he had stooped to make such
uses of his genius; but many of the details are pleasing;
and in the famous passage of the Angel, as well as in several
others, there is even something of force and imagination.

The consideration covenanted for by the poet's friends was
faithfully paid.  A vacancy occurred by the death of another
celebrated man, John Locke; and Addison was appointed one
of the five commissioners of appeal in Excise.  The duties
of the place must have been as light for him as they had
been for his predecessor, for he continued to hold it with
all the appointments he subsequently received from the same
ministry.  But there is no reason for believing that he
was more careless than other public servants in his time;
and the charge of incompetency as a man of business, which
has been brought so positively against him, cannot easily
be true as to this first period of his official career.
Indeed, the specific allegations refer exclusively to the last
years of his life; and, if he had not really shown practical
ability in the period now in question, it is not easy to
see how he, a man destitute alike of wealth, of social or
fashionable liveliness and of family interest, could have been
promoted, for several years, from office to office, as he
was, till the fall of the administration to which he was
attached.  In 1706 he became one of the under-secretaries of
state, serving first under Sir Charles Hedges, who belonged to
the Tory section of the government, and afterwards under Lord
Sunderland, Marlborough's son-in-law, and a zealous follower
of Addison's early patron, Somers.  The work of this office,
however, like that of the commissionership, must often have
admitted of performance by deputy; for in 1707, the Whigs
having become stronger, Lord Halifax was sent on a mission
to the elector of Hanover; and, besides taking Vanbrugh the
dramatist with him as king-at-arms, he selected Addison as his
secretary.  In 1708 Addison entered parliament, sitting at
first for Lostwithiel, but afterwards for Malmesbury, which
he represented from 1710 till his death.  Here unquestionably
he did fail.  What part he may have taken in the details
of business we are not informed; but he was always a silent
member, unless it be true that he once attempted to speak
and sat down in confusion.  In 1708 Lord Wharton, the father
of the notorious duke, having been named lord-lieutenant of
Ireland, Addison became his secretary, receiving also an
appointment as keeper of records.  This event happened only
about a year and a half before the dismissal of the ministry.

But there are letters showing that Addison made himself
acceptable to some of the best and most distinguished persons
in Dublin; and he escaped without having any quarrel with
Swift, his acquaintance with whom had begun some time before.

In his literary history those years of official service are
almost a blank, till we approach their close.  Besides furnishing
a prologue to Steele's comedy of The Tender Husband (1705),
he admittedly gave him some assistance in its composition;
he defended the government in an anonymous pamphlet on The
Present State of the War (1707); he united compliments
to the all-powerful Marlborough with indifferent attempts
at lyrical poetry in his opera of Rosamond; and during
the last few months of his tenure of office he contributed
largely to the Tatler. His entrance on this new field
nearly coincides with the beginning of a new period in his
life.  Even the coalition-ministry of Godolphin was too
Whiggish for the taste of Queen Anne; and the Tories, the
favourites of the court, gained, both in parliamentary power
and in popularity out of doors, by a combination of lucky
accidents, dexterous management and divisions and double-dealing
among their adversaries.  The real failure of the prosecution
of Addison's old friend Sacheverell completed the ruin of
the Whigs; and in August 1710 an entire revolution in the
ministry had been completed.  The Tory administration which
succeeded kept its place till the queen's death in 1714,
and Addison was thus left to devote four of the best years
of his life, from his thirty-ninth year to his forty-third,
to occupations less lucrative than those in which his time
had recently been frittered away, but much more conducive to
the extension of his own fame and to the benefit of English
literature.  Although our information as to his pecuniary
affairs is very scanty, we are entitled to believe that he
was now independent of literary labour.  He speaks, in an
extant paper, of having had (but lost) property in the West
Indies; and he is understood to have inherited something
from a younger brother, who had been governor of Madras.  In
1711 he purchased, for L. 10,000, the estate of Bilton, near
Rugby--the place which afterwards became the residence of Mr
Apperley, better known by his assumed name of ``Nimrod.''

During those four years he produced a few political
writings.  Soon after the fall of the ministry, he started
the Whig Examiner in opposition to the Tory Examiner, then
conducted by Prior, and afterwards the vehicle of Swift's most
vehement invectives against the party he had once belonged
to.  These are certainly the most ill-natured of Addison's
writings, but they are neither lively nor vigorous, and
the paper died after five numbers (14th September to 12th
October 1710).  There is more spirit in his allegorical
pamphlet, The Trial and Conviction of Count Tariff.

But from the autumn of 1710 till the end of 1714 his principal
employment was the composition of his celebrated periodical
essays.  The honour of inventing the plan of such compositions,
as well as that of first carrying the idea into execution,
belongs to Richard Steele, who had been a schoolfellow of
Addison at the Charterhouse, continued to be on intimate
terms with him afterwards and attached himself with his
characteristic ardour to the same political party.  When,
in April 1709, Steele published the first number of the
Tatler, Addison was in Dublin, and knew nothing of the
design.  He is said to have detected his friend's authorship
only by recognizing, in the sixth number, a critical remark
which he remembered having himself communicated to Steele.
Shortly afterwards he began to furnish hints and suggestions,
assisted occasionally and finally wrote regularly.  According
to Mr Aitken (Life of Steele, i. 248), he contributed 42
out of the total of 271 numbers, and was part-author of 36
more.  The Tatler exhibited, in more ways than one, symptoms
of being an experiment.  For some time the projector, imitating
the news-sheets in form, thought it prudent to give, in
each number, news in addition to the essay; and there was a
want, both of unity and of correct finishing, in the putting
together of the literary materials.  Addison's contributions,
in particular, are in many places as lively as anything he
ever wrote; and his style, in its more familiar moods at
least, had been fully formed before he returned from the
continent.  But, as compared with his later pieces, these
are only what the painter's loose studies and sketches are
to the landscapes which he afterwards constructs out of
them.  In his invention of incidents and characters, one
thought after another is hastily used and hastily dismissed,
as if he were putting his own powers to the test or trying the
effect of various kinds of objects on his readers; his most
ambitious flights, in the shape of allegories and the like,
are stiff and inanimate; and his favourite field of literary
criticism is touched so slightly, as to show that he still
wanted confidence in the taste and knowledge of the Public.

The Tatler was dropped in January 1711, but only to be
followed by the Spectator, which was begun on the 1st day of
March, and appeared every week-day till the 6th day of December
1712.  It had then completed the 555 numbers usually collected
in its first seven volumes, and of these Addison wrote 274
to Steele's 236. He co-operated with Steele constantly from
the very opening of the series; and they devoted their whole
space to the essays.  They relied, with a confidence which
the extraordinary popularity of the work fully justified,
on their power of exciting the interest of a wide audience
by pictures and reflexions drawn from a field which embraced
the whole compass of ordinary life and ordinary knowledge,
no kind of practical themes being positively excluded except
such as were political, and all literary topics being held
admissible, for which it seemed possible to command attention
from persons of average taste and information.  A seeming
unity was given to the undertaking, and curiosity and interest
awakened on behalf of the conductors, by the happy invention
of the Spectator's Club, for which Steele made the first
sketch.  The figure of Sir Roger de Coverley, however, the best
even in the opening group, is the only one that was afterwards
elaborately depicted; and Addison was the author of most of the
papers in which his oddities and amiabilities are so admirably
delineated.  Six essays are by Steele, who gives Sir Roger's
love-story, and one paper by Budgell describes a hunting party.

To Addison the Spectator owed the most natural and elegant,
if not the most original, of its humorous sketches of human
character and social eccentricities, its good-humoured satires
on ridiculous features in manners and on corrupt symptoms in
public taste; these topics, however, making up a department
in which Steele was fairly on a level with his more famous
co-adjutor.  But Steele had neither learning, nor taste, nor
critical acuteness sufficient to qualify him for enriching
the series with such literary disquisitions as those which
Addison insinuated so often into the lighter matter of his
essays, and of which he gave an elaborate specimen in his
criticism on Paradise Lost. Still farther beyond the powers
of Steele were those speculations on the theory of literature
and of the processes of thought analogous to it, which, in
the essays ``On the Pleasures of the Imagination,'' Addison
prosecuted, not, indeed, with much of philosophical depth,
but with a sagacity and comprehensiveness which we shall
undervalue much unless we remember how little of philosophy
was to be found in any critical views previously propounded in
England.  To Addison, further, belong those essays which (most
frequently introduced in regular alternation in the papers
of Saturday) rise into the region of moral and religious
meditation, and tread the elevated ground with a step so graceful
as to allure the reader irresistibly to follow; sometimes, as
in the ``Walk through Westminster Abbey,', enlivening solemn
thought by gentle sportiveness; sometimes flowing on with an
uninterrupted sedateness of didactic eloquence, and sometimes
shrouding sacred truths in the veil of ingenious allegory, as
in the ``Vision of Mirza.'' While, in short, the Spectator,
if Addison had not taken part in it, would probably have
been as lively and humorous as it was, and not less popular
in its own day, it would have wanted some of its strongest
claims on the respect of posterity, by being at once lower
in its moral tone, far less abundant in literary knowledge
and much less vigorous and expanded in thinking.  In point of
style, again, the two friends resemble each other so closely
as to be hardly distinguishable, when both are dealing with
familiar objects, and writing in a key not rising above that
of conversation.  But in the higher tones of thought and
composition Addison showed a mastery of language raising him
very decisively, not above Steele only, but above all his
contemporaries.  Indeed, it may safely be said, that no one,
in any age of English literature, has united, so strikingly
as he did, the colloquial grace and ease which mark the
style of an accomplished gentleman, with the power of soaring
into a strain of expression nobly and eloquently dignified.

On the cessation of the Spectator, Steele set on foot the
Guardian, which, started in March 1713, came to an end in
October, with its 175th number.  To this series Addison gave 53
papers, being a very frequent writer during the latter half
of its progress.  None of his essays here aim so high as the
best of those in the Spectator; but he often exhibits both
his cheerful and well-balanced humour and his earnest desire
to inculcate sound principles of literary judgment.  In the
last six months of the year 1714, the Spectator received its
eighth and last volume; for which Steele appears not to have
written at all, and Addison to have contributed 24 of the 80
papers.  Most of these form, in the unbroken seriousness both
of their topics and of their manner, a contrast to the majority
of his essays in the earlier volumes; but several of them, both
in this vein and in one less lofty, are among the best known,
if not the finest, of all his essays.  Such are the ``Mountain
of Miseries''; the antediluvian novel of ``Shalum and Hilpa'';
the ``Reflections by Moonlight on the Divine Perfections.''

In April 1713 Addison brought on the stage, very reluctantly,
as we are assured, and can easily believe, his tragedy of
Cato. Its success was dazzling; but this issue was mainly
owing to the concern which the politicians took in the
exhibition.  The Whigs hailed it as a brilliant manifesto
in favour of constitutional freedom.  The Tories echoed
the applause, to show themselves enemies of despotism,
and professed to find in Julius Caesar a parallel to the
formidable Marlborough.  Even with such extrinsic aids,
and the advantage derived from the established fame of the
author, Cato could never have been esteemed a good dramatic
work, unless in an age in which dramatic power and insight
were almost extinct.  It is poor even in its poetical
elements, and is redeemed only by the finely solemn tone of
its moral reflexions and the singular refinement and equable
smoothness of its diction.  That it obtained the applause
of Voltaire must be ascribed to the fact that it was written
in accordance with the rules of French classical drama.

The literary career of Addison might almost be held as closed
soon after the death of Queen Anne, which occurred in August
1714, when he had lately completed his 42nd year.  His own life
extended only five years longer; and in this closing portion of
it we are reminded of his more vigorous days by nothing but a
few happy inventions interspersed in political pamphlets, and the
gay fancy of a trifling poem on Kneller's portrait of George I.

The lord justices who, previously chosen secretly by the elector
of Hanover, assumed the government on the queen's demise,
were, as a matter of course, the leading Whigs.  They appointed
Addison to act as their secretary.  He next held, for a very
short time, his former office under the Irish lord-lieutenant;
and, late in 1716, he was made one of the lords of trade.
In the course of the previous year had occurred the first of
the only two quarrels with friends, into which the prudent,
good-tempered and modest Addison is said to have ever been
betrayed.  His adversary on this occasion was Pope, who, a
few years before, had received, with an appearance of humble
thankfulness, Addison's friendly remarks on his Essay
on Criticism (Spectator, No. 253); but who, though still
very young, was already very famous, and beginning to show
incessantly his literary jealousies and his personal and party
hatreds.  Several little misunderstandings had paved the way
for a breach, when, at the same time with the first volume of
Pope's Iliad, there appeared a translation of the first book
of the poem bearing the name of Thomas Tickell.  Tickell, in
his preface, disclaimed all rivalry with Pope, and declared
that he wished only to bespeak favourable attention for his
contemplated version of the Odyssey. But the simultaneous
publication was awkward; and Tickell, though not so good a
versifier as Pope, was a dangerous rival, as being a good
Greek scholar.  Further, he was Addison's under-secretary
and confidential friend; and Addison, cautious though he
was, does appear to have said (quite truly) that Tickell's
translation was more faithful than the other.  Pope's anger
could not be restrained.  He wrote those famous lines in
which he describes Addison under the name of Atticus, and
although it seems doubtful whether he really sent a copy
to Addison himself, he afterwards went so far as to profess
a belief that the rival translation was really Addison's
own.  Addison, it is pleasant to observe, was at the pains,
in his Freeholder, to express hearty approbation of the
Iliad of Pope, who, on the contrary, after Addison's
death, deliberately printed his matchlessly malignant verses
in the ``Epistle to Dr Arbuthnot.'' In 1716 there was acted,
with little success, Addison's comedy of The Drummer, or
the Haunted House. It contributes very little to his
fame.  From September 1715 to June 1716 he defended the
Hanoverian succession, and the proceedings of the government
in regard to the rebellion, in a paper called the Freeholder,
which he wrote entirely himself, dropping it with the 55th
number.  It is much better tempered, not less spirited and
much more able in thinking than his Examiner. The finical
man of taste does indeed show himself to be sometimes weary of
discussing constitutional questions; but he aims many enlivening
thrusts at weak points of social life and manners; and the
character of the Fox-hunting Squire, who is introduced as the
representative of the Jacobites, is drawn with so much humour
and force that we regret not being allowed to see more of him.

In August 1716, when he had completed his 44th year, Addison
married Charlotte, countess-dowager of Warwick, a widow of
fifteen years' standing.  She seems to have forfeited her
jointure by the marriage, and to have brought her husband
nothing but the occupancy of Holland House at Kensington.
The assertion that the courtship was a long one is probably
as erroneous as the contemporary rumour that the marriage was
unhappy.  Such positive evidence as exists tends rather to the
contrary.  What seems clear is, that, from obscure causes,--among
which it is alleged a growing habit of intemperance was
one---Addison's health was shattered before he took the last, and
certainly the most unwise, step in his ascent to political power.

For a considerable time dissensions had existed in the
ministry; and these came to a crisis in April 1717, when those
who had been the real chiefs passed into the ranks of the
opposition.  Townshend was dismissed, and Walpole anticipated
dismissal by resignation.  There was now formed, under
the leadership of General Stanhope and Lord Sunderland, an
administration which, as resting on court-influence, was
nicknamed the ``German ministry.'' Sunderland, Addison's
former superior, became one of the two principal secretaries
of state; and Addison himself was appointed as the other.
His elevation to such a post had been contemplated on the
accession of George I., and prevented, we are told, by his
own refusal; and it is asserted, on the authority of Pope,
that his acceptance now was owing only to the influence of his
wife.  Even if there is no ground, as there probably is
not, for the allegation of Addison's inefficiency in the
details of business, his unfitness for such an office in such
circumstances was undeniable and glaring.  It was impossible
that a government, whose secretary of state could not open his
lips in debate, should long face an opposition headed by Robert
Walpole.  The decay of Addison's health, too, was going on
rapidly, being, we may readily conjecture, precipitated by
anxiety, if no worse causes were at work.  Ill-health was the
reason assigned for retirement, in the letter of resignation
which he laid before the king in March 1718, eleven months
after his appointment.  He received a pension of L. 1500 a year.

Not long afterwards the divisions in the Whig party alienated
him from his oldest friend.  The Peerage Bill, introduced
in February 1719, was attacked, on behalf of the opposition,
in a weekly paper called the Plebeian, written by
Steele.  Addison answered the attack in the Old VVhig,
and this belum plusquam civile--as Johnson calls it--was
continued, with increased acrimony, through two or three
numbers.  How Addison, who was dying, felt after this painful
controversy we are not told directly; but the Old Whig
was excluded from that posthumous collection of his works
(1721-1726) for which his executor Tickell had received from
him authority and directions.  It is said that the quarrel
in politics rested on an estrangement which had been growing
for some years.  According to a rather nebulous story, for
which Johnson is the popular authority, Addison, or Addison's
lawyer, put an execution for L. 100 in Steele's house by
way of reading his friend a lesson on his extravagance.
This well-meant interference seems to have been pardoned by
Steele, but his letters show that he resented the favour
shown to Tickell by Addison and his own neglect by the Whigs.

The disease under which Addison laboured appears to have been
asthma.  It became more violent after his retirement from
office, and was now accompanied by dropsy.  His deathbed was
placid and resigned, and comforted by those religious hopes
which he had so often suggested to others, and the value of
which he is said, in an anecdote of doubtful authority, to
have now inculcated in a parting interview with his step-son.
He died at Holland House on the 17th of June 1719, six weeks
after having completed his 47th year.  His body, after lying in
state, was interred in the Poets' Corner of Westminster Abbey.

Addison's life was written in 1843 by Lucy Aikin.  This
was reviewed by Macaulay in July of the same year.  A more
modern study is that m the ``Men of Letters'' series by W. J.
Courthope (1884).  There is a convenient one-volume edition
of the Spectator, by Henry Morley (Routledge, 1868), and
another in 8 vols. (1897-1898) by G. Gregory Smith.  Of
the Tatler there is an edition by G. A. Aitken in 8 vols.
(1898).  A complete edition of Addison's works (based upon
Hurd) is included in Bohn's British Classics. (W. S.; A. D.)

ADDISON'S DISEASE, a constitutional affection manifesting
itself in an exaggeration of the normal pigment of the skin,
asthenia, irritability of the gastro-intestinal tract, and
weakness and irregularity of the heart's action: these symptoms
being due to loss of function of the suprarenal glands.  It
is important to note, however, that Addison's Disease may
occur without pigmentation, and pigmentation without Addison's
Disease.  The condition was first recognized by Dr Thomas
Addison of Guy's Hospital, who in 1855 published an important
work on The Constitutional and Local Effects of Diseases of
the Suprarenal Capsules. Sir Samuel Wilks worked zealously
in obtaining recognition for these observations in England,
and Brown-Sequard in France was stimulated by this paper to
investigate the physiology of these glands.  Dr Trousseau,
many years later, first called the condition by Addison's
name.  Dr Headlam Greenhow worked at the subject for many
years and embodied his observations in the Croonian Lectures of
1875.  But from this time on no further work was undertaken
until the discovery of the treatment of myxoedema by thyroid
extract, and the consequent researches into the physiology of
the ductless glands.  This stimulated renewed interest in the
subject, and work was carried on in many countries.  But it
remained for Schafer and Oliver of University College, London,
to demonstrate the internal secretion of the suprarenals,
and its importance in normal metabolism, thereby confirming
Addison's original view that the disease was due to loss of
function of these glands.  They demonstrated that these glands
contain a very powerful extract which produces toxic effects
when administered to animals, and that an active principle
``adrenalin'' can be separated, which excites contraction
of the small blood vessels and thus raises blood pressure.
The latest views of this disease thus stand: (1) that it is
entirely dependent on suprarenal disease, being the result of
a diminution or absence of their internal secretion, or else of
a perversion of their secretion; or (2) that it is of nervous
origin, being the result of changes in or irritation of the large
sympathetic plexuses in the abdomen; or else (3) that it is a
combination of glandular inadequacy and sympathetic irritation.

The morbid anatomy shows (1) that in over 80% of the cases
the changes in the suprarenals are those due to tuberculosis,
usually beginning in the medulla and resulting in more or
less caseation; and that this lesion is bilateral and usually
secondary to tuberculous disease elsewhere, especially of
the spinal column.  In the remaining cases (2) simple atrophy
has been noted, or (3) chronic interstitial inflammation
which would lead to atrophy; and finally (4) an apparently
normal condition of the glands, but the neighbouring
sympathetic ganglia diseased or involved in a mass of fibrous
tissue.  Other morbid conditions of the suprarenals
do not give rise to the symptoms of Addison's Disease.

The onset of the disease is extremely insidious, a slow but
increasing condition of weakness being complained of by the
patient.  There is a feeble and irregular action of the heart
resulting in attacks of syncope which may prove fatal.  Blood
pressure is extremely low.  From time to time there may be
severe attacks of nausea, vomiting or diarrhoea.  The best
known symptom, but one which only occurs after the disease
has made considerable progress, is a gradually increasing
pigmentation of the skin, ranging from a bronzy yellow to
brown or even occasionally black.  This pigmentation shows
itself (1) over exposed parts, as face and hands; (2) wherever
pigment appears normally, as in the axillae and round the
nipples; (3) wherever pressure is applied, as round the waist;
and (4) occasionally on mucous membranes, as in the mouth.

The patient's temperature is uqually somewhat subnormal.  The
disease is found in males far more commonly than in females, and
among the lower classes more than the upper.  But this latter fact
is probably due to poor nourishment and bad hygienic conditions
rendering the poorer classes more susceptible to tuberculosis.

The diagnosis, certainly in the early stages of the disease,
and often in the later, is by no means easy.  Pigmentation of
the skin occurs in many conditions---as in normal pregnancy,
uterine fibroids, abdominal growths, certain cases of heart
disease, exophthalmic goitre, &c., and after the prolonged use
of certain drugs---as arsenic and silver.  But the presence
of a low blood pressure with weakness and irritability of the
heart and some of the preceding symptoms render the diagnosis
fairly certain.  The latest researches on the subject tend
to indicate a more certain diagnosis in the effect on the
blood pressure of administering suprarenal extract, the blood
pressure of the normal subject being unaffected thereby,
that of the man suffering from suprarenal inadequacy being
markedly raised.  The disease is treated by promoting the
general health in every possible way; by diet; by tonics,
especially arsenic and strychnine; by attention to the
hygienic conditions; and always by the administration of one
of the many preparations of the suprarenal gland extract.

``ADDRESS, THE'', an English parliamentary term for the
reply of the Houses of Parliament (and particularly of the
House of Commons) to the speech of the sovereign at the
opening of a new parliament or session.  There are certain
formalities which distinguish this stage of parliamentary
proceedings.  The ``king's speech'' itself is divided into three
sections: the first, addressed to ``My Lords and Gentlemen,''
touches on foreign affairs; the second, to the ``Gentlemen of
the House of Commons,'' has reference to the estimates; the
third, to ``My Lords and Gentlemen,'' outlines the proposed
legislation for the session.  Should the sovereign in person
open parliament, he does so in the House of Lords in full
state, and the speaker and members of the House of Commons
are summoned there into the royal presence.  The sovereign
then reads his speech.  If the sovereign is not present in
person, the speech is read by commission.  The Commons then
return to their House, and an address in answer is moved in
both Houses.  The government of the day selects two of its
supporters in each House to move and second the address, and
when carrying out this honourable task they appear in levee
dress.  Previous to the session of 1890-1891, the royal speech
was answered paragraph by paragraph, but ``the address'' is
now moved in the form of a single resolution, thanking the
sovereign for his most gracious speech.  The debate on the
address is used as a means of ranging over the whole government
policy, amendments being introduced by the opposition.  A
defeat on an amendment to the address is generally regarded
by the government as a vote of no-confidence.  After the
address is agreed to it is ordered to be presented to the
sovereign.  The thanks of the sovereign for the address are
then conveyed to the Lords by the lord steward of the household
and to the Commons by the comptroller of the household.

ADELAER, or ADELER (Norwegian for ``eagle''), the
surname of honour given on his ennoblement to Kurt Sivertsen
(1622-1675), the famous Norwegian-Danish naval commander.
He was born at Brevig in Norway, and at the age of fifteen
became a cadet in the Dutch fleet under van Tromp, after a
few years entering the service of the Venetian Republic, which
was engaged at the time in a war with Turkey.  In 1645 he had
risen to the rank of captain; and after sharing in various
victories as commander of a squadron, he achieved his most
brilliant success at the Dardanelles, on the 13th of May 1654,
when, with his own vessel alone, he broke through the line
of Turkish galleys, sank fifteen of them, and burned others,
causing a loss to the enemy of 5000 men.  The following day he
entered Tenedos, and compelled the complete surrender of the
Turks.  On returning to Venice he was crowned with honours,
and became admiral-lieutenant in 1660.  Numerous tempting
offers were made to him by other naval powers, and in 1661
he left Venice to return to the Netherlands.  Next year he
was induced, by the offer of a title and an enormous salary,
to accept the command of the Danish fleet from Frederick
III. Under Christian V. he took the command of the combined
Danish fleets against Sweden, but died suddenly on the 5th of
November 1675 at Copenhagen, before the expedition set out.
When in the Venetian service, Adelaer was known by the name of
Curzio Suffrido Adelborst (i.e. Dutch for ``naval cadet'').

ADELAIDE (Ger. Adelheid) (931--999), queen of Italy and
empress, was the daughter of Rudolph II. of Burgundy and of
Bertha, daughter of Duke Burchard of Swabia.  On the death
of Rudolph in 937, his widow married Hugh, king of Italy, to
whose son Lothair Adelaide was at the same time betrothed.
She was married to him in 947; but after an unhappy union
of three years Lothair died (November 22, 950).  The young
widow, remarkable for her character and beauty, was seized
by Lothair's successor, Berengar II., margrave of Ivrea,
who, angered probably at her refusal to marry his son Adalbert
and thus secure his title to the Italian kingdom, kept her
in close confinement at Como.  After four months (August
951), she escaped, and took refuge at Canossa with Atto, count
of Modena-Reggio (d. 981).  Meanwhile Otto I., the German
king, whose English wife Edgitha had died in 946, had formed
the design of marrying her and claiming the Italian kingdom
in her right, as a step towards the revival of the empire of
Charlemagne.  In September 951, accordingly, he appeared in
Italy, Adelaide willingly accepted his invitation to meet him
at Pavia and at the close of the year the fateful union was
celebrated.  From the first her part in German affairs was
important.  To her are ascribed the influences which led in 953
to the revolt of Ludolf, Otto's son by his first marriage, the
crushing of which in the following year established Adelaide's
power.  On the 2nd of February 962 she was crowned empress
at Rome by Pope John XII. immediately after her husband,
and she accompanied Otto in 966 on his third expedition to
Italy, where she remained with him for six years.  After
Otto I.'s death (May 7, 973), Adelaide exercised for some
years a controlling influence over her son, the new emperor,
Otto II. The causes of their subsequent estrangement are
obscure, but it was possibly due to the empress's lavish
expenditure in charity and church building, which endeared
her to ecclesiastics but was a serious drain on the imperial
finances.  In 978 she left the court and lived partly in
Italy, partly with her brother Conrad, king of Burgundy,
by whose mediation she was ultimately reconciled to her
son.  In 983, shortly before his death, she was appointed
his viceroy in Italy; and was successful, in concert with the
empress Theophano, widow of Otto II., and Archbishop Willigis
of Mainz, in defending the right of her infant grandson,
Otto III., to the German crown against the pretensions of
Henry the Quarrelsome, duke of Bavaria.  In June 984 the
infant king was handed over by Henry to the care of the two
empresses; but the masterful will of Theophano soon obtained
the upper hand, and until the death of the Greek empress,
on the 15th of June 991, Adelaide had no voice in German
affairs.  She now assumed the regency, in concert with Bishop
Willigis and a council of princes of the Empire, and held
it until in 995 Otto was declared of age.  In 996 the young
king went to Italy to receive the imperial crown; and from
this date Adelaide ceased to concern herself with worldly
affairs, but devoted herself to pious exercises, to intimate
correspondence with the abbots Majolus and Odilo of Cluny,
and the foundation of churches and religious houses.  She died
on the 17th of December 999, and was buried in the convent
of SS. Peter and Paul, her favourite foundation, at Salz in
Alsace.  She was proclaimed a saint by the grateful German
clergy; but her name has never found a place in the Roman
calendar.  Like her daughter-in-law Theophano and other
exalted ladies of this period, Adelaide possessed considerable
literary attainments (literatissima erat), and her
knowledge of Latin was of use to Otto I., who only learned the
language late in life and remained to the end a poor scholar.

By the emperor Otto I. she had four children: Otto II. (d.
983), Mathilda, abbess of Quedlinburg (d. 999), Adelheid
(Adelaide), abbess of Essen (d. 974), and Liutgard, who
married Conrad II., duke of Franconia, and died in 955.

Adelaide's life (Vita or Epitaphium Adalheidae imperatricis)
was written by St Odilo of Cluny.  It is valuable only for
the latter years of the empress, after she had retired from
any active share in the world's affairs.  The rest of her life
is merely outlined, though her adventures in escaping from
Berengar are treated in more detail.  The best edition is in
Duchesne, Bibliotheca Cluniacensis, pp. 353. 362., see
Giov.  Batt.  Semeria, Vita politico-religiosa di s.
Adeleida, &c. (Turin, 1842); Jul. Bentzinger, Das Leben
der Kaiserin Adelheid ...weahrend der Regierung Ottos III.,
Inaug.  Dissertation (Breslau, 1883); J. J. Dey, Hist. de
s.  Adelaide, &c. (Geneva, 1862); F. P. Wimmer, Kaiserin
Adelheid, Gemahlin Ottos I. des Grossen (Regensb. 1889);
Wattenbach, Deutschlands Geschichtsquellen (Stuttgart
and Berlin, 1904).  Further references in Chevalier,
Repertoire des sources historiques (Paris, 1903).

ADELAIDE, the capital of South Australia.  It is situated in
the county to which it gives name, on the banks of the river
Torrens, 7 m. from its mouth.  Its site is a level plain, near
the foot of the Mount Lofty range, in which Mount Lofty itself
reaches 2334 ft.  The broad streets of the city intersect at right
angles.  It is divided into North Adelaide, the residential,
and South Adelaide, the business quarter.  A broad strip of
park lands lies between them, through which runs the river
Torrens, crossed by five bridges and greatly improved by a
dam on the west of the city.  The banks are beautifully laid
out.  Broad belts of park lands surround both North and South
Adelaide, and as the greater portion of these lands is planted
with fine shady trees, this feature renders Adelaide one of
the most attractive cities in Australasia.  South Adelaide is
bounded by four broad terraces facing north, south, east and
west.  The main thoroughfare, King William Street, runs north
and south, passing through Victoria Square, a small park
in the centre of the city.  Handsome public buildings are
numerous.  Government House stands in grounds on the north
side of North Terrace, with several other official buildings
in the vicinity; but the majority are in King William Street.
Here are the town hall, with the lofty Albert Tower, and the
general post office, with the Victoria Tower--which, with the
old and new Government offices, the Roman Catholic cathedral
of St Francis Xavier and the court houses, surround Victoria
Square.  On North Terrace are the houses of parliament, and
the institute, containing a public library and museum.  Here
is also Adelaide University, established by an act of 1874,
and opened in 1876.  The existing buildings were opened in
1882.  Munificent gifts have from time to time assisted in the
extension of its scope, as for example that of Sir Thomas Elder
(d. 1897), who took a leading part in the foundation of the
university.  This gift, among other provisions, enabled the
Elder Conservatorium of Music to be established, the building
for which was opened in 1900.  In 1903 a building for the
schools of engineering and science was opened.  The total
number of students in the university approaches 1000.  To the
east of the university is the building in which the exhibition
was held in commemoration of the jubilee of the colony in
1887.  This building is occupied by the Royal Agricultural
and Horticultural Society, a technical museum, &c. The
school of mines and industries (1903) stands east of this
again.  The buildings of the numerous important commercial,
social and charitable institutions add to the dignity of the
city.  The Anglican cathedral of St Peter (1878) is in North
Adelaide.  The Botanical Park, which has an area of 84 acres,
lies on the south bank of the Torrens, on the east of the
city.  It includes the Zoological Garden, is beautifully
laid out and forms one of the most attractive features of
Adelaide.  The city has a number of good statues, chief among
which are copies of the Farnese Hercules (Victoria Square)
and of Canova's Venus (North Terrace), statues of Queen
Victoria and Robert Burns, Sir Thomas Elder's statue at the
university, and a memorial (1905) over the grave of Colonel
Light, founder of the colony, in Light Square.  Adelaide is
governed by a mayor and six aldermen elected by the whole
body of the ratepayers, and is the only Australian city in
which the mayor is so elected.  The chief industries are the
manufacture of woollen, earthenware and iron goods, brewing,
starch-making, flour-milling and soap-boiling.  Adelaide
is also the central share market of Australia, for West
Australian goldmines, for the silver-mines at Broken Hill,
and for the coppermines at Wallaroo, Burra Burra and Moonta;
while Port Adelaide, on the neighbouring shore of St Vincent
Gulf, ranks as the third in the Commonwealth.  Adelaide is
the terminus of an extensive railway system, the main line
of which runs through Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane to
Rockhampton.  In summer the climate is often oppressively hot
under the influence of winds blowing from the interior, but the
proximity of the sea on the one side and of the mountains on
the other allows the inhabitants to avoid the excessive heat;
at other seasons, however, the climate is mild and pleasant;
with a mean annual rainfall of 20.4 ins.  The vice-regal
summer residence is at Marble Hill, on the Mount Lofty
range.  Adelaide was founded in 1836 and incorporated in
1843.  It received its name at the desire of King William
IV., in honour of Queen Adelaide.  Round the city are many
pleasant suburbs, connected with it by rail and tramways;
the chief of these are Burnside, Beaumont, Unley, Mitcham,
Goodwood, Plymton, Hindmarsh, Prospect, St Peters, Norwood
and Kensington.  Glenelg is a favourite watering-place.
The population of the city proper was 39,240 in 1901; of
the city and suburbs within a 10-miles radius, 162,261.

ADELARD (or AETHELARD) of Bath (12th century), English
scholastic philosopher, and one of the greatest savants of
medieval England.  He studied in France at Laon and Tours, and
travelled, it is said, through Spain, Italy, North Africa and
Asia Minor, during a period of seven years.  At a time when
Western Europe was rich in men of wide knowledge and intellectual
eminence, he gained so high a reputation that he was described
by Vincent de Beauvais as Philosophus Anglorum. He lived
for a time in the Norman kingdom of Sicily and returned to
England in the reign of Henry I. From the Pipe Roll (31 Henry
I. 1130) it appears that he was awarded an annual grant of
money from the revenues of Wiltshire.  The great interest of
Adelard in the history of philosophy lies in the fact that
he made a special study of Arabian philosophy during his
travels, and, on his return to England, brought his knowledge
to bear on the current scholasticism of the time.  He has been
credited with a knowledge of Greek, and it is said that his
translation of Euclid's Elements was made from the original
Greek.  It is probable, however, from the nature of the text,
that his authority was an Arabic version.  This important
work was published first at Venice in 1482 under the name
of Campanus of Novara, but the work is always attributed to
Adelard.  Campanus may be responsible for some of the notes.
It became at once the text-book of the chief mathematical
schools of Europe, though its critical notes were of little
value.  His Arabic studies he collected under the title
Perdifficiles Quaestiones Naturales, printed after
1472.  It is in the form of a dialogue between himself and
his favourite nephew, and was dedicated to Richard, bishop
of Bayeux from 1113 to 1133.  He wrote also treatises on
the astrolabe (a copy of this is in the British Museum), on
the abacus (three copies exist in the Vatican library, the
library of Leiden University and the Bibliotheque Nationale
in Paris), translations of the Kharismian tables and an
Arabic Introduction to Astronomy. His great contribution to
philosophy proper was the De Eodem et Diverso (On Identity
and Difference), which is in the form of letters addressed
to his nephew.  In this work philosophy and the world are
personified as Philosophia and Philocosmia in conflict for
the soul of man.  Philosophia is accompanied by the liberal
arts, represented as Seven Wise Virgins; the world by Power,
Pleasure, Dignity, Fame and Fortune.  The work deals with
the current difficulties between nominalism and realism, the
relation between the individual and the genus or species.
Adelard regarded the individual as the really existent, and
yet, from different points of view, as being himself the genus
and the species.  He was either the founder or the formulator
of the doctrine of indifference, according to which genus
and species retain their identity in the individual apart
altogether from particular idiosyncrasies.  For the relative
importance of this doctrine see article SCHOLASTICISM.

See Jourdain, Recherches sur Les traductions d'Aristote
(2nd ed., 1843); Haureau, Philosophie Scholastique (2nd
ed., 1872), and works appended to art. SCHOLASTICISM.

ADELSBERG (Slovene Postojina), a market-town in Carniola,
Austria, 30 m.  S.S.W. of Laibach by rail, Pop. (1900) 3636,
mostly Slovene.  About a mile from the town is the entrance
to the famous stalactite cavern of Adelsberg, the largest and
most magnificent in Europe.  The cavern is divided into four
grottoes, with two lateral ramifications which reach to the
distance of about a mile and a half from the entrance.  The
river Poik enters the cavern 60 ft. below its mouth, and is
heard murmuring in its recesses.  In the Kaiser-Ferdinand
grotto, the third of the chain, a great ball is annually held
on Whit-Monday, when the chamber is brilliantly illuminated.
The Franz-Joseph-Elisabeth grotto, the largest of the four, and
the farthest from the entrance, is 665 ft. in length, 640 ft.
in breadth and more than 100 ft. high.  Besides the imposing
proportions of its chambers, the cavern is remarkable for the
variegated beauty of its stalactite formations, some resembling
transparent drapery, others waterfalls, trees, animals or human
beings, the more grotesque being called by various fanciful
appellations.  These subterranean wonders were known as far
back as 1213, but the cavern remained undiscovered in modern
times until 1816, and it is only in still more recent times
that its vast extent has been fully ascertained and explored.
The total length of the passages is now estimated at over 5 1/2
m.  The connexion with the Ottokar grotto was established in
1890.  The Magdalene grotto, about an hour's walk to the
north, is celebrated for the extraordinary subterranean
amphibian, the proteus anguinus, first discovered
there.  It is about a foot in length, lives on snails
and worms and is provided with both lungs and gills.

ADELUNG, JOHANN CHRISTOPH (1732-1806), German grammarian and
philologist, was born at Spantekow, in Pomerania, on the 8th of
August 1732, and educated at the public schools of Anklam and
Klosterbergen, and the university of Halle.  In 1759 he was
appointed professor at the gymnasium of Erfurt, but relinquished
this situation two years later and went to reside in a private
capacity at Leipzig, where he devoted himself to philological
researches.  In 1787 he received the appointment of principal
librarian to the elector of Saxony at Dresden, where he continued
to reside until his death on the 10th of September 1806.

The writings of Adelung are very voluminous, and there
is not one of them, perhaps, which does not exhibit
some proofs of the genius, industry and erudition of the
author.  By means of his excellent grammars, dictionary and
various works on German style, he contributed greatly towards
rectifying the orthography, refining the idiom and fixing
the standard of his native tongue.  His German dictionary--
Grammatisch-kritisches Worterbuch der hochdeutschen
Mundart (1774-1786)--bears witness to the patient spirit
of investigation which Adelung possessed in so remarkable a
degree, and to his intimate knowledge of the history of the
different dialects on which modern German is based.  No man
before Jakob Grimm (q.v.) did so much for the language of
Germany.  Shortly before his death he issued Mithridates,
oder allgemeine Sprachenkunde (1806).  The hint of this work
appears to have been taken from a publication, with a similar
title, published by Konrad von Gesner (1516-1565) in 1555;
but the plan of Adelung is much more extensive.  Unfortunately
he did not live to finish what he had undertaken.  The first
volume, which contains the Asiatic languages, was published
immediately after his death; the other two were issued under
the superintendence of Johann Severin Vater (1771-1826).
Of the very numerous works by Adelung the following may be
noted: Directorium diplomaticum (Meissen, 1802); Deutsche
Sprachlehre fur Schulen (Berlin, 1781), and the periodical,
Magazin fur die deutsche Sprache (Leipzig, 1782-1784).

ADEMPTION (Lat. ademptio, from adimere, a taking away),
in law, a revocation of a grant or bequest (see LEGACY.)

ADEN, a seaport and territory in Arabia, politically
part of British India, under the governor of Bombay.  The
seaport is situated in 12 deg.  45' N. lat., and 45 deg.  4' E.
long., on a peninsula near the entrance to the Red Sea, 100
m.  E. of the strait of Bab-el-Mandeb.  The peninsula of Aden
consists chiefly of a mass of barren and desolate volcanic
rocks, extending five miles from east to west, and three
from its northern shore to Ras Sanailah or Cape Aden, its
most southerly point; it is connected with the mainland by
a neck of flat sandy ground only a few feet high; and its
greatest elevation is Jebel Shamshan, 1776 ft. above the
level of the sea.  The town is built on the eastern coast,
in what is probably the crater of an extinct volcano, and is
surrounded by precipitous rocks that form an admirable natural
defence.  There are two harbours, an outer, facing the
town, protected by the island of Sirah, but now partially
choked with mud; and an inner, called Aden Back-bay, or,
by the Arabs, Bandar Tawayih, on the western side of the
peninsula, which at all periods of the year admits vessels
drawing less than 20 ft.  On the whole, Aden is a healthy
place, although it suffers considerably from the want of good
water, and the heat is often very intense.  From time to time
additional land on the mainland has been acquired by cession
or purchase, and the adjoining island of Perim, lying in
the actual mouth of the strait, was permanently occupied in
1857.  Farther inland, and along the coast, most of the
Arab chiefs are under the political control of the British
government, which pays them regular allowances.  The area of
the peninsula is only 15 sq. m., but the total area of British
territory is returned at 80 sq. m., including Perim (5 sq.
m.), and that of the Aden Protectorate is about 9000 sq.
m.  The seaport of Aden is strongly fortified.  Modern science
has converted ``Steamer Point'' into a seemingly impregnable
position, the peninsula which the ``Point'' forms to the
whole crater being cut off by a fortified line which runs
from north to south, just to the east of the coal wharfs.
The administration is conducted by a political resident,
who is also the military commandant.  All food requires to
be imported, and the water-supply is largely derived from
condensation.  A little water is obtained from wells, and some
from an aqueduct 7 m. long, constructed in 1867 at a cost of
L. 30,000, besides an irregular supply from the old reservoirs.

From its admirable commercial and military position, Aden early
became the chief entrepot of the trade between Europe and
Asia.  It is the 'Arabia eudaimon of the Periplus.
It was known to the Romans as Arabia Felix and Attanae,
and was captured by them, probably in the year 24 B.C.
In 1513 it was unsuccessfully attacked by the Portuguese
under Albuquerque, but subsequently it fell into the hands
of the Turks in 1538.  In the following century the Turks
themselves relinquished their conquests in Yemen, and the
sultan of Sana established a supremacy over Aden, which was
maintained until the year 1735, when the sheikh of Lahej,
throwing off his allegiance, founded a line of independent
sultans.  In 1837 a ship under British colours was wrecked near
Aden, and the crew and passengers grievously maltreated by the
Arabs.  An explanation of the outrage being demanded by the
Bombay government, the sultan undertook to make compensation
for the plunder of the vessel, and also agreed to sell his
town and port to the English.  Captain Haines of the Indian
navy was sent to complete these arrangements, but the sultan's
son refused to fulfil the promises that his father had
made.  A combined naval and miltary force was thereupon
despatched, and the place was captured and annexed to
British India on the 16th of January 1839.  The withdrawal
of the trade between Europe and the East, caused by the
discovery of the passage round the Cape of Good Hope, and
the misgovernment of the native rulers, had gradually reduced
Aden to a state of comparative insignificance; but about the
time of its capture by the British the Red Sea route to India
was reopened, and commerce soon began to flow in its former
channel.  Aden was made a free port, and was chosen as one of
the coaling stations of the Peninsular and Oriental Steamship
Company.  Its importance as a port of call for steamers and a
coaling station has grown immensely since the opening of the Suez
Canal.  It also conducts a considerable trade with the interior of
Arabia, and with the Somali coast of Africa on the opposite side
of the Red Sea. The submarine cables of the Eastern Telegraph
Company here diverge--on the one hand to India, the Far East
and Australia, and on the other hand to Zanzibar and the Cape.

In 1839 the population was less than 1000, but in 1901 it
had grown to 43,974.  The gross revenue (1901-1902) was Rs.
37,25,915.  There are three printing-presses, of which one
is in the gaol and the other two belong to a European and
a Parsee firm of merchants.  The port is visited yearly by
some 1300 steamers with a tonnage of 2 1/2 million tons.  The
principal articles of import are coffee, Cotton-piece goods,
&c., grain, hides, coal, opium, cotton- twist and yarn.  The
exports are, in the main, a repetition of the imports.  Of
the total imports nearly one-third come from the east coast of
Africa, and another third from Arabia.  Of the total exports,
nearly one-third again go to the east coast of Africa.  The
Aden brigade belongs to the western army corps of India.

ADENES (ADENEZ or ADANS), surnamed LE ROI, French
trouvere, was born in Brabant about 1240.  He owed his
education to the kindness of Henry III., duke of Brabant,
and he remained in favour at court for some time after the
death (1261) of his patron.  In 1269 he entered the service
of Guy de Dampierre, afterwards count of Flanders, probably
as roi des menestrels, and followed him in the next year
on the abortive crusade in Tunis in which Louis IX. lost his
life.  The expedition returned by way of Sicily and Italy,
and Adenes has left in his poems some very exact descriptions
of the places through which he passed.  The purity of his
French and the absence of provincialisms point to a long
residence in France, and it has been suggested that Adenes
may have followed Mary of Brabant thither on her marriage
with Philip the Bold.  He seems, however, to have remained
in the service of Count Guy, although he made frequent visits
to Paris to consult the annals preserved in the abbey of St
Denis.  The poems written by Adenes are four: the Enfances
Ogier, an enfeebled version of the Chevalerie Ogier de
Danemarche written by Raimbert de Paris at the beginning
of the century; Berte aus granspies, the history of the
mother of Charlemagne, founded on well-known traditions which
are also preserved in the anonymous Chronique de France,
and in the Chronique rimee of Philippe Mousket; Bueves de
Comarchis, belonging to the cycle of romance gathered round the
history of Aimeri de Narbonne; and a long roman d'aventures,
Cleomades, borrowed from Spanish and Moorish traditions
brought into France by Blanche, daughter of Louis IX., who
after the death of her Spanish husband returned to the French
court.  Adenes probably died before the end of the 13th century.

The romances of Adenes were edited for the Academie
Imperiale et Royale of Brussels by A. Scheler and A. van
Hasseh in 1874; Berte was rendered into modern French by
G. Hecq (1897) and by R. Perie(1900); Cleomades, by
Le Chevalier de Chatelain (1859).  See also the edition of
Berte by Paulin Paris (1832); an article by the same writer
in the Hist. litt. de la France, vol. xx. pp. 679-718;
Leon Gautier, Les epopees francaises, vol. iii., &c.

ADENINE, or 6-AMINO-PURIN, C5H5N5, in chemistry, a
basic substance which has been obtained as a decomposition
product of nuclein, and also from the pancreatic glands of
oxen.  It has been synthesized by E. Fischer (Berichte,
1897, 30, p. 2238) by heating 2.6.8-trichlorpurin with 10
times its weight of ammonia for six hours at 100 deg.  C.; by
this means 6-amino-2.8-dichlorpurin is obtained, which on
reduction by means of hydriodic acid and phosphonium iodide
is converted into adenine.  In 1898 E. Fischer also obtained
it from 8-oxy-2.6-dichlorpurin Berichte, 1898, 31, p. 104).
It crystallizes in long needles; forms salts C5H5N5.2HI and
(C5H5N5)2.H2SO4.2H2O, and is converted by nitrous acid
into hypoxanthine or 6-oxypurin.  On heating with hydrochloric
acid at 180-200 deg.  C. it is decomposed; the products of the
reaction being glycocoll, ammonia, formic acid and carbon
dioxide.  Various methyl derivatives of adenine have been
described by E. Fischer (Berichte, 1898, 31, on 104) and
by M. Kruger (Zeit. fur physiol.  Chemie, 1894, 18, p.
434).  For the constitution of adenine see PURIN.

ADENOIDS, or ADENOID GROWTHS (from Gr. adenoeides, glandular),
masses of soft, spongy tissue between the back of the nose
and throat, occurring mostly in young children; blocking the
air-way, they prevent the due inflation of the lungs and the
proper development of the chest.  The growths are apt to keep
up a constant catarrh near the orifice of the ventilating
tubes which pass from the throat to the ear, and so render
the child dull of hearing or even deaf.  They also give
rise to asthma, and like enlarged tonsils--with which they
are often associated-- they impart to the child a vacant,
stupid expression, and hinder his physical and intellectual
development.  They cause his voice to be ``stuffy,'' thick, and
unmusical.  Though, except in the case of a cleft palate,
they cannot be seen with the naked eye, they are often
accompanied by a visible and suggestive granular condition
of the wall at the back of the throat.  Their presence may
easily be determined by the medical attendant gently hooking
the end of the index-finger round the back of the soft
palate.  If the tonsils are enlarged it is kinder to postpone
this digital examination of the throat until the child is
under the influence of an anaesthetic for operation upon the
tonsils, and if adenoids are present they can be removed at
the same time that the tonsils are dealt with.  Though the
disease is a comparatively recent discovery, the pioneer
in its treatment being Meyer of Copenhagen, it has probably
existed as long as tuberculosis itself, with which affection
it is somewhat distantly connected.  In the unenlightened
days many children must have got well of adenoids without
operation, and even at the present time it by no means follows
that because a child has these postnasal vegetations he must
forthwith be operated on.  The condition is very similar
to that of enlarged tonsils, where with time, patience and
attention to general measures, operation is often rendered
unnecessary.  But if the child continues to breathe with
his mouth open and to snore at night, if he remains deaf and
dull, and is troubled with a chronic ``cold in his head,''
the question of thorough exploration of the naso-pharynx
and of a surgical operation should most certainly be
considered.  In recent years the comparatively simple operation
for their removal has been very frequently performed, and,
as a rule, with marked benefit, but this treatment should
always be followed by a course of instruction in respiratory
exercises; the child must be taught regularly to fill his
lungs and make the tidal air pass through the nostrils.  These
respiratory exercises may be resorted to before operation is
proposed, and in some cases they may render operative treatment
unnecessary.  Operations should not be performed in cold
weather or in piercing east winds, and it is advisable to
keep the child indoors for a day or two subsequent to its
performance.  To expose a child just after operating on his
throat to the risks of a journey by train or omnibus is highly
inadvisable.  Although the operation is not a very painful one, it
ought not to be performed upon a child except under the influence
of chloroform or some other general anaesthetic. (F. O.*)

ADEPT (if used as a substantive pronounced adept, if
as an adjective adept; from Lat. adeptus, one who has
attained), completely and fully acquainted with one's
subject, an expert.  The word implies more than acquired
proficiency, a natural inborn aptitude.  In olden times
an adept was one who was versed in magic, an alchemist,
one who had attained the great secrets of the unknown.

ADERNO, a town of the province of Catania, Sicily, 22
m.  N.W. of the town of that name.  Pop. (1901) 25,859.  It
occupies the site of the ancient Adranon, which took its name
from Adranos, a god probably of Phoenician origin, in Roman
times identified with Vulcan, whose chief temple was situated
here, and was guarded by a thousand huge gods; there are perhaps
some substructures of this building still extant outside the
town.  The latter was founded about 400 B.C. by Dionysius
I.; very fine remains of its walls are preserved.  For a time
it was the headquarters of Timoleon, and it was the first town
taken by the Romans in the First Punic War (263 B.C..) In
the centre of the modern town rises the castle, built by Roger
I.; in the chapel are frescoes representing his granddaughter,
Adelasia, who founded the convent of St Lucia in 1157, taking the
veil.  The columns in the principal church are of black lava.

See P. Russo, Illustrazione storica di Aderno (Adorno, 1897).

ADEVISM, a term introduced by Max Muller to imply the
denial of gods (Sans. deva), on the analogy of Atheism,
the denial of God. Max Muller used it particularly in
connexion with the Vedanta philosophy for the correlative
of ignorance or nescience (Gifford lectures, 1892, c. ix.).

ADHEMAR DE CHABANNES (c. 988-c. 1030), medieval
historian, was born about 988 at Chabannes, a village in
the French department of Haute-Vienne.  Educated at the
monastery of St Martial at Limoges, he passed his life as a
monk, either at this place or at the monastery of St Cybard at
Angouleme.  He died about 1030, most probably at Jerusalem,
whither he had gone on a pilgrimage.  Adinemar's life
was mainly spent in writing and transcribing chronicles,
and his principal work is a history entitled Chronicon
Aquitanicum et Francicum or Historia Francorum. This
is in three books and deals with Frankish history from the
fabulous reign of Pharamond, king of the Franks, to A.D.
1028.  The two earlier books are scarcely more than a copy of
the Gesta regum Francorum, but the third book, which deals
with the period from 814 to 1028, is of considerable historical
importance.  This is published in the Monumenta Germaniac
historica.  Scriptores. Band iv. (Hanover and Berlin,
1826-1892).  He also wrote Commemoratio abbatum Lemovicensium
basilicae S. Martialis apostoli (848-1029) and Epistola
ad Jordanum Lemovicensem episcopum et alios de apostolatu
S. Martialis, both of which are published by J. P. Migne
in the Patrologia Latinia, tome cxli. (Paris, 1844-1855).

See F. Arbellot, Etude historique et litteraire sur Ademar de
Chabannes (Limoges, 1873); J. F. E. Castaigne, Dissertation sur
le lieu de naissance et sur la famille du chroniqueur Ademar,
moine de l'abbaye de St Cybard d'Angouleme (Angouleine, 1850).

ADHEMAR (ADEMAR, AIMAR, AELARZ) DE MONTEIL (d. 1098),
one of the principal personages of the first crusade, was bishop
of Puy en Velay from before 1087.  At the council of Clermont in
1095 he showed great zeal for the crusade, and having been named
apostolic legate by the pope, he accompanied Raymond IV., count
of Toulouse, to the east.  He negotiated with Alexis Comnenus
at Constantinople, re-established at Nicaea some discipline
among the crusaders, caused the siege of Antioch to be raised
and died in that city of the plague on the 1st of August 1098.

See the article by C. Kohler in La Grande
Encyclopedie; Bibliographie du Velay (1902), 640-650.

ADHESION (from Lat. adhaerere, to adhere), the process
of adhering or clinging to anything.  In a figurative sense,
adhesion (like ``adherent'') is used of any attachment to a
party or movement; but the word is also employed technically
in psychology, pathology and botany.  In psychology Bain
and others use it of association of ideas and action; in
pathology an adhesion is an abnormal union of surfaces;
and in botany ``adhesion'' is used of dissimilar parts,
e.g. in floral whorls, in opposition to ``cohesion,''
which applies to similar parts, e.g. of the same whorl.

ADIAPHORISTS (Gr. adiaforos, indifferent).  The Adiaphorist
controversy among Lutherans was an issue of the provisional
scheme of compromise between religious parties, pending a
general council, drawn up by Charles V., sanctioned at the
diet of Augsburg, 15th of May 1548, and known as the Augsburg
Interim.  It satisfied neither Catholics nor Protestants.
As head of the Protestant party the young elector Maurice of
Saxony negotiated with Melanchthon and others, and at Leipzig,
on the 22nd of December 1548, secured their acceptance of the
Interim as regards adiaphora (things indifferent), points
neither enjoined nor forbidden in Scripture.  This sanctioned
jurisdiction of Catholic bishops, and observance of certain
rites, while all were to accept justification by faith
(relegating sola to the adiaphora.) This modification was
known as the Leipzig Interim; its advocates were stigmatized as
Adiaphorists.  Passionate opposition was led by Melanchthon's
colleague, Matth.  Flacius, on the grounds that the imperial
power was not the judge of adiaphora, and that the measure
was a trick to bring back popery.  From Wittenberg he fled,
April 1549, to Magdeburg, making it the headquarters of rigid
Lutheranism.  Practically the controversy was concluded by the
religious peace ratified at Augsburg (Sept. 25, 1555), which
left princes a free choice between the rival confessions,
with the right to impose either on their subjects; but much
bitter internal strife was kept up by Protestants on the
theoretical question of adiaphora; to appease this was one
object of the Formula Concordiae, 1577.  Another Adiaphorist
controversy between Pietists and their opponents, respecting
the lawfulness of amusements, arose in 1681, when Anton
Reiser (1628-1686) denounced the opera as antichristian.

See arts. by J. Gottschick in A. Hauck's Realencyklopadie
(1896); by Fritz in I. Goschler's Dict.  Encyclop. de la
Theol.  Cath. (1858); other authorities in J. C. L. Gieseler,
Ch. Hist. (N. York ed., 1868, vol. iv.); monograph by
Erh. Schmid, Adiaphora, wissenschaftlich und historisch
untersucht (1809), from the rigorist point of view.

ADIGE (Ger. Etsch, anc. Athesis), a considerable river
in North Italy.  The true source of the Adige is in some
small lakes on the summit of the Reschen Scheideck Pass (4902
ft.), and it is swollen by several other streams, near Glurns,
where the roads over the Ofen and the Stelvio Passes fall
in.  It thence flows east to Meran, and then south-east to
Botzen, where it receives the Eisak (6 ft.), and becomes
navigable.  It then turns south-west, and, after receiving the
Noce (right) and the Avisio (left), leaves Tirol, and enters
Lombardy, 13 m. south of Rovereto.  After traversing North
Italy, in a direction first southerly and then easterly, it
falls into the Adriatic at Porto Fossone, a few miles north
of the mouth of the Po. The most considerable towns on its
banks (south of Botzen) are Trent and Rovereto, in Tirol,
and Verona and Legnago, in Italy.  It is a very rapid river,
and subject to sudden swellings and overflowings, which cause
great damage to the surrounding country.  It is navigable from
the heart of Tirol to the sea.  In Lombardy it has a breadth
of 200 yds., and a depth of 10 to 16 ft., but the strength
of the current renders its navigation very difficult, and
lessens its value as a means of transit between Germany and
Italy.  The Adige has a course of about 220 m., and, after the
Po, is the most important river in Italy.  In Roman times
it flowed, in its lower course, much farther north than at
present, along the base of the Euganean hills, and entered
the sea at Brondolo.  In A.D. 587 the river broke its
banks, and the main stream took its present course, but
new streams opened repeatedly to the south, until now the
Adige and the Po form conjointly one delta. (W. A. B. C.)

ADIPOCERE (from the Lat. adeps, fat, and cera, wax), a
substance into which animal matter is sometimes converted, and
so named by A. F. Fourcroy, from its resemblance to both fat and
wax.  When the Cimetiere des Innocens at Paris was removed in
1786-1787, great masses of this substance were found where the
coffins containing the dead bodies had been placed very closely
together.  The whole body had been converted into this fatty
matter, except the bones, which remained, but were extremely
brittle.  Chemically, adipocere consists principally of a
mixture of fatty acids, glycerine being absent.  Saponification
with potash liberates a little ammonia (about 1%), and gives
a mixture of the potassium salts of palmitic, margaric and
oxymargaric acids.  The insoluble residue consists of lime,
&c., derived from the tissues.  The artificial formation
of adipocere has been studied; it appears that it is not
formed from albuminous matter, but from the various fats in
the body collecting together and undergoing decomposition.

ADIRONDACKS, a group of mountains in north-eastern New York,
U.S.A., in Clinton, Essex, Franklin and Hamilton counties,
often included by geographers in the Appalachian system,
but pertaining geologically to the Laurentian highlands of
Canada.  They are bordered on the E. by Lake Champlain,
which separates them from tho Green Mountains.  Unlike the
Appalachians, the Adirondacks do not form a connected
range, but consist of many summits, isolated or in groups,
arranged with little appearance of system.  There are about
one hundred peaks, ranging from 1200 to 5000 ft. in height;
the highest peak, Mt. Marcy (called by the Indians Tahawus or
``cloud-splitter''), is near the eastern part of the group
and attains an elevation of 5344 ft.  Other noted peaks are
M`Intyre (5210 ft,), Haystack (4918), Dix (4916) and Whiteface
(4871).  These mountains, consisting of various sorts of
gneiss, intrusive granite and gabbro, have been formed partly
by faulting but mainly by erosion, the lines of which have
been determined by the presence of faults or the presence of
relatively soft rocks.  Lower Palaeozoic strata lap up on to
the crystalline rocks on all sides of the mountain group.  The
region is rich in magnetic iron ores, which though mined for
many years are not yet fully developed.  Other mineral products
are graphite, garnet used as an abrasive, pyrite and zinc
ore.  The mountains form the water-parting between the Hudson
and the St Lawrence rivers.  On the south and south-west
the waters flow either directly into the Hudson, which rises
in the centre of the group, or else reach it through the
Mohawk.  On the north and east the waters reach the St Lawrence
by way of Lakes George and Champlain, and on the west they
flow directly into that stream or reach it through Lake
Ontario.  The most important streams within the area are the
Hudson, Black, Oswegatchie, Grass, Raquette, Saranac and Ausable
rivers.  The region was once covered, with the exception of
the higher summits, by the Laurentian glacier, whose erosion,
while perhaps having little effect on the larger features of the
country, has greatly modified it in detail, producing lakes and
ponds, whose number is said to exceed 1300, and causing many
falls and rapids in the streams.  Among the larger lakes are
the Upper and Lower Saranac, Big and Little Tupper, Schroon,
Placid, Long, Raquette and Blue Mountain.  The region known as
the Adirondack Wilderness, or the Great North Woods, embraces
between 5000 and 6000 sq. m. of mountain, lake, plateau and
forest, which for scenic grandeur is almost unequalled in
any other part of the United States.  The mountain peaks are
usually rounded and easily scaled, and as roads have been
constructed over their slopes and in every direction through
the forests, all points of interest may be easily reached by
stage.  Railways penetrate the heart of the region, and small
steamboats ply upon the larger lakes.  The surface of most
of the lakes lies at an elevation of over 1500 ft. above
the sea; their shores are usually rocky and irregular, and
the wild scenery within their vicinity has made them very
attractive to the tourist.  The mountains are easily reached
from Plattsburgh, Port Kent, Herkimer, Malone and Saratoga
Springs.  Every year thousands spend the summer months in the
wilderness, where cabins, hunting lodges, villas and hotels are
numerous.  The resorts most frequented are in the vicinity
of the Saranac and St Regis lakes and Lake Placid.  In the
Adirondacks are some of the best hunting and fishing grounds
in the eastern United States.  Owing to the restricted period
allowed for hunting, deer and small game are abundant, and the
brooks, rivers, ponds and lakes are well stocked with trout
and black bass.  At the head of Lake Placid stands Whiteface
Mountain, from whose summit one of the finest views of the
Adirondacks may be obtained.  Two miles south-east of this
lake, at North Elba, is the old farm of the abolitionist John
Brown, which contains his grave and is much frequented by
visitors.  Lake Placid is the principal source of the Ausable
river, which for a part of its course flows through a
rocky chasm from 100 to 175 ft. deep and rarely over 30 ft.
wide.  At the head of the Ausable Chasm are the Rainbow Falls,
where the stream makes a vertical leap of 70 ft.  Another
impressive feature of the Adirondacks is Indian Pass, a gorge
about eleven miles long, between Mt. M`Intyre and Wallface
Mountain.  The latter is a majestic cliff rising vertically
from the pass to a height of 1300 ft.  Keene Valley, in
the centre of Essex county, is another picturesque region,
presenting a pleasing combination of peaceful valley and
rugged hills.  Though the climate during the winter months
is very severe--the temperature sometimes falling as low
as -42 deg.  F.--it is beneficial to persons suffering from
pulmonary troubles, and a number of sanitariums have been
established.  The region is heavily forested with spruce,
pine and broad-leaved trees.  Lumbering is an important
industry, but it has been much restricted by the creation of
a state forest preserve, containing in 1907, 1,401,482 acres,
and by the purchase of large tracts for game preserves and
recreation grounds by private clubs.  The so-called Adirondack
Park, containing over 3,000,000 acres, includes most of the
state preserve and large areas held in private ownership.

For a description of the Adirondacks, see S. R. Stoddard,
The Adirondacks Illustrated (24th ed., Glen Falls,
1894); and E. R. Wallace, Descriptive Guide to the
Adirondacks (Syracuse, 1894).  For geology and mineral
resources consult the Reports of the New York State
Geologist and the Bulletins of the New York State Museum.

ADIS ABABA (``the new flower''), the capital of Abyssinia
and of the kingdom of Shoa, in 9 deg.  1' N., 38 deg.  56' E., 220
m.  W. by S. of Harrar, and about 450 m.  S.W. of Jibuti on
the Gulf of Aden.  Adis Ababa stands on the southern slopes
of the Entotto range, at an altitude of over 8000 ft., on
bare, grassy undulations, watered by small streams flowing
S.S.E. to the Hawash.  It is a large straggling encampment
rather than a town, with few buildings of any architectural
merit.  The Gobi or royal enclosure completely covers a small
hill overlooking the whole neighbourhood, while around it
are the enclosures of the abuna and principal nobles, and the
residences of the foreign ministers.  The principal traders
are Armenians and Hindus.  About a mile north-east of the
palace is the military camp.  On the hills some five miles to
the north, 1500 ft. above the camp, are the ruins of an old
fortress, and the churches of St Raguel and St Mariam.  The
town is in telegraphic communication with Massawa, Harrar and
Jibuti.  It was founded by Menelek II. in 1892 as the
capital of his kingdom in succession to Entotto, a deserted
settlement some ten or twelve miles north of Adis Ababa.

ADJECTIVE (from the Lat. adjectivus, added), a word used
chiefly in its grammatical sense of limiting or defining the
noun to which it refers.  Formerly grammarians used not to
separate a noun from its adjective, or attribute, but spoke of
them together as a noun-adjective.  In the art of dyeing, certain
colours are known as adjective colours, as they require mixing
with some basis to render them permanent. ``Adjective law''
is that which relates to the forms of procedure, as opposed to
``substantive law,'' the rules of right administered by a court.

ADJOURNMENT (through the French from the Late Lat.
adjurnare, to put off until or summon for another day),
the act of postponing a meeting of any private or public
body, particularly of parliament, or any business, until
another time, or indefinitely (in which case it is an
adjournment sine die.) The word applies also to the period
during which the meeting or business stands adjourned.

ADJUDICATION (Lat. adjudicatio; adjudicare, to award),
generally, a trying or determining of a case by the exercise
of judicial power; a judgment.  In a more technical sense,
in English and American law, an adjudication is an order of
the bankruptcy courts by which a debtor is adjudged bankrupt
and his property vested in a trustee.  It usually proceeds
from a resolution of the creditors or where no composition
or scheme of arrangement has been proposed by the debtor.  It
may be said to consummate bankruptcy, for not till then does
a debtor's property actually vest in a trustee for division
among the creditors, though from the first act of bankruptcy
till adjudication it is protected by a receiving order.
As to the effect which adjudication has on the bankrupt, see
under BANKRUPTCY. The same process in Scots law is called
sequestration.  In Scots law the term ``adjudication'' has quite
a different meaning, being the name of that action by which a
creditor attaches the heritable, i.e. the real, estate of his
debtor, or his debtor's heir, in order to appropriate it to
himself either in payment or security of his debt.  The term
is also applied to a proceeding of the same nature by which
the holder of a heritable right, labouring under any defect in
point of form, gets that defect supplied by decree of a court.

ADJUNCT (from Lat. ad, to, and jungere, to join), that which
is joined on to another, not an essential part, and inferior to it
in mind or function, but which nevertheless amplifies or modifies
it.  Adverbs and adjectives are adjuncts to the words they
qualify.  Learning, says Shakespeare, is an ``adjunct to ourself''
(Love's Labour's Lost, IV. iii. 314).  Twelve members of the
Royal Academy of Sciences in Paris are called ``adjuncts.''

ADJUSTMENT (from late Lat. ad-juxtare, derived from
juxta. near, but early confounded with a supposed derivation
from justus, right), regulating, adapting or settling; in
commercial law, the settlement of a loss incurred at sea on
insured goods.  The calculation of the amounts to be made
good to and paid by the several interests is a complicated
matter.  It involves much detail and arithmetic, and requires
a full and accurate knowledge of the principles of the
subject.  Such adjustments are made by men called adjusters,
who make the subject their profession.  In Great Britain
they are for the most part members of the Average Adjusters'
Association (1870), a body which has done much careful
work with a view to making and keeping the practice uniform
and in accord with right principles.  This association
has gradually formulated, at their annual meetings, a body
of practical rules which the individual members undertake
to observe. (See AVERAGE and INSURANCE, Marine.)

ADJUTAGE (from Fr. ajutage, from ajouter, to join
on; an older English form was ``adjustage''), a mouthpiece
or nozzle, so formed as to facilitate the outflow of
liquids from a vessel or pipe. (See HYDRAULICS.)

ADJUTANT (from Lat. adjutare, to aid), a helper or junior in
command, one who assists his superior, especially an officer
who acts as an assistant to the officer commanding a corps of
troops.  In the British army the appointment of adjutant is held
by a captain or lieutenant.  The adjutant acts as staff officer
to the commanding officer, issues his orders, superintends the
work of the orderly room and the general administration of the
corps, and is responsible for musketry duties and the training of
recruits.  Regular officers are appointed as adjutants to all
units of the auxiliary forces.  On the European continent the
word is not restricted to the lower units of organization; for
example, in Germany the Adjutantur includes all ``routine''
as distinct from ``general'' staff officers in the higher
units, and the aides-decamp of royal persons and of the higher
commanders are also styled adjutant-generals, flugel-adj
utanten, &c . For the so-called adjutant bird see JABIRU.

ADJUTANT-GENERAL, an army official, originally (as indicated
by the word) the chief assistant (Lat. adjuvare) staff-officer
to a general in command, but now a distinct high functionary
at the head of a special office in the British and American war
departments.  In England the second military member of the
Army Council is styled adjutant-general to the forces.  He
is a general officer and at the head of his department of
the War Office, which is charged with all duties relative to
personnel.  The adjutant-general of the United States army is
one of the principal officers in the war department, the head
of the bureau for army correspondence, with the charge of the
records, recruiting, issue of commissions, &c. Individual
American states also have their own adjutant-general, with
cognate duties regarding the state militia.  In many countries,
such as Germany and Russia, the term has retained its original
meaning of an officer on the personal staff, and is the
designation of personal aides-de-camp to the sovereign.

By a looseness of translation, the superintendents of
provinces, in the order of Jesuits, who act as officials
under the superintendence of and auxiliary to the
general, are sometimes called adjutants-general.

ADLER, FELIX (1851- ), American educationalist, was born
at Alzey, Germany, on the 13th of August 1851.  His father,
a Jewish rabbi, emigrated to the United States in 1857,
and the son graduated at Columbia College in 1870.  After
completing his studies at Berlin and Heidelberg, he became, in
1874, professor of Hebrew and Oriental Literature at Cornell
University.  In 1876 he established in New York City the
Society for Ethical Culture, to the development and extension
of which he devoted a great deal of time and energy, and
before which he delivered a regular Sunday lecture.  In 1902
he became professor of political and social ethics at Columbia
University.  He also acted as one of the editors of the
International Journal of Ethics. Under his direction the
Society for Ethical Culture became an important factor in
educational reform in New York City, exercising through its
technical training school and kindergarten (established in
January 1878) a wide influence.  Dr Adler also took a prominent
part in philanthropic and social reform movements, such as the
establishment of a system of district nursing, the erection
of model tenement houses, and tenement house reform.  He
published Creed and Deed (1877), The Moral Instruction
of Children (1892), Life and Destiny (1903), Marriage
and Divorce (1905), and The Religion of Duty (1905).

ADMETUS, in Greek legend, son of Pheres, king of Pherae in
Thessaly.  By the aid of Apollo, who served him as a slave--
either as a punishment for having slain the Cyclopes, or out of
affection for his mortal master--he won the hand of Alcestis,
the most beautiful of the daughters of Pelias, king of Iolcus.
When Admetus was attacked by an illness that threatened to lead
to his premature death, Apollo persuaded the Moerae (Fates) to
prolong his life, provided any one could be found to die in his
place.  His parents refused, but Alcestis consented.  She is
said to have been rescued from the hands of Death by Heracles,
who arrived upon the scene at an opportune moment; a later story
represents her as cured of a dangerous illness by his skill.

Homer, Iliad, ii. 715; Apollodorus, i. 9; Euripides,
Alcestis; Plutarch, Amatorius, 17; Dissel, Der Mythus
von Admetos und Alkestis, progr.  Brandenburg, 1882.

ADMINISTRATION (Lat. administrare, to serve), the performance
or management of affairs, a term specifically used in law for
the administration or disposal of the estate of a deceased person
(see WILL OR TESTAMENT.) It is also used generally for
``government,'' and specifically for ``the government'' or the executive
ministry, and in such connexions as the administration (administering
or tendering) of the sacraments, justice, oaths, medicines, &c.

Letters of administration.--Upon the death of a person
intestate or leaving a will to which no executors are appointed,
or when the executors appointed by the will cannot or will
not act, the Probate Division of the High Court is obliged
to appoint an administrator who performs the duties of an
executor.  This is done by the court granting letters of
administration to the person entitled.  Grants of administration
may be either general or limited.  A general grant is made
where the deceased has died intestate.  The order in which
general grants of letters will be made by the court is as
follows: (1) The husband, or widow, as the case may be;
(2) the next of kin; (3) the crown; (4) a creditor; (5) a
stranger.  Since the Land Transfer Act 1897, the administrator
is the real as well as the personal representative of the
deceased, and consequently when the estate to be administered
consists wholly or mainly of reality the court will grant
administration to the heir to the exclusion of the next of
kin.  In the absence of any heir or next of kin the crown
is entitled to the personality as bona vacantia, and to
the reality by escheat.  If a creditor claims and obtains
a grant he is compelled by the court to enter into a bond
with two sureties that he will not prefer his own debt to
those of other creditors.  The more important cases of grants
of special letters of administration are the following:--

Administration cum testamento annexo, where the deceased
has left a will but has appointed no executor to it, or the
executor appointed has died or refuses to act.  In this case the
court will make the grant to the person (usually the residuary
legatee) with the largest beneficial interest in the estate.

Administration de bonis non administratis: this occurs
in two cases--(a) where the executor dies intestate
after probate without having completely administered the
estate; (b) where an administrator dies.  In the first
case the principle of administration cum testamento is
followed, in the second that of general grants in the
selection of the person to whom letters are granted.

Administration durante minore aetate, when the executor
or the person entitled to the general grant is under age.

Administration durante absentia, when the executor or
administrator is out of the jurisdiction for more than a year.

Administration pendente lite, where there is a dispute as to
the person entitled to probate or a general grant of letters the
court appoints an administrator till the question has been decided.

ADMINISTRATOR, in English law, the person to whom the
Probate Division of the High Court of Justice (formerly the
ordinary or judge of the ecclesiastical court) acting in the
sovereign's name, commits the administration (q.v.) of the
goods of a person deceased, in default of an executor.  The
origin of administrators is derived from the civil law.  Their
establishment in England is owing to a statute made in the 31st
year of Edward I. (1303).  Till then no office of this kind
was known besides that of executor; in default of whom, the
ordinary had the disposal of goods of persons intestate, &c.
(See also EXECUTORS, and, for intestate estates, INTESTACY.)

ADMINISTRATOR, in Scots law, is a person legally
empowered to act for another whom the law presumes incapable
of acting for himself, as a father for a pupil child.

ADMIRAL, the title of the general officer who commands a
fleet, or subdivision of a fleet.  The origin of the word is
undoubtedly Arabic.  In the 12th century the Mediterranean
states which had close relations with the Moslem powers
on the shores or in the islands of that sea, found the
title amir or emir in combination with other words used
to describe men in authority; the amir-al-mumenin--prince
of the faithful--or al-bahr--commander of the sea.  They
took the substantive ``amir'' and the article ``al'' to
form one word, ``amiral'' or ``ammiral'' or ``almirante.''
The Spaniards made miramamolin, out of amiral-mumenin, in
the same way. ``Amiral,'' as the name of an eastern ruler,
became familiar to the northern nations during the crusades.
Layamon, writing in the early years of the 13th century,
speaks of the ``ammiral of Babilon,'' and the word was for
long employed in this sense.  As a naval title it was first
taken by the French from the Genoese during the crusade of
1249.  By the end of the 13th century it had come to be used
in England as the name of the officer who commanded the Cinque
Port ships.  The English form ``admiral'' arose from popular
confusion with the Latin admirabilis. Such errors were
naturally produced by the fantastic etymology of the middle
ages.  In Spain, Alphonso the Wise of Castile, in his code of
laws, the Siete Partidas (Seven Divisions), accounts for
the Spanish form ``almirante'' by its supposed derivation
from the Latin admirari, since the admiral is ``to be
admired'' for the difficulties and dangers he overcomes, and
because he is the chief of those who see the wonders of the
Lord in the deep--mirabilia ejus (sc. Domini) in profundo.
Both in Spanish and in Elizabethan English the word has
been applied to the flagship of an officer commanding a
fleet or part of one.  The Spanish almiranta is the ship
of the second in command, and the capitana of the first.
In this sense it is not uncommonly found in the narratives
of Elizabethan voyages or campaigns, and it is so used by
Milton in Paradise Lost--``the mast of some tall ammiral.''

As the title of an office it was borne by the great military,
judicial and administrative officer known in France as grand
amiral; in England as lord high admiral; in Spain as almirante
mayor. His functions, which were wide, have been generally
absorbed by the crown, or the state, and have been divided among
judicial and administrative officials (see NAVY, History;
ADMIRALTY ADMINISTRATION; and ADMIRALTY JURISDICTION.)
The title of admiral is still borne as an hereditary honour
by the descendants of Columbus, the dukes of Veraqua, in
Spain.  It is a purely honorific distinction representing the
admiralship of the islands and Ocean Sea, conferred on the
discoverer by the Catholic sovereigns, Ferdinand and Isabella.

In the staff of a modern navy the admirals correspond to
the general officers in the army.  Where, as in Russia, the
grand admiralship is annexed to the crown, the highest rank
is that of lieutenant admiral general.  In Great Britain
there is the rank of admiral of the fleet, corresponding to
field-marshal.  It is, however, little more than an honorary
distinction.  The three active ranks are those of admiral,
vice-admiral and rear-admiral, corresponding to general,
lieutenant-general and major-general in the army.  They are
found in all navies under very slightly varied forms.  The
only difference which is not one of mere spelling is in the
equivalent for rear-admiral, which is contre amiral in
French, and in other navies of the continent of Europe
involves some slight variation of the word ``contre'' (first
used at the time of the French Revolution).  The vice- and
rear-admiral of Great Britain are again honorary titles,
without the active functions, conferred in compliment on
senior naval officers. ``Admiral'' is also the name given to
the chief of fishery fleets.  On the banks of Newfoundland
it was given to officials who had powers conferred by the
state.  In the case of an ordinary fishing-fleet in European
waters, it is of private origin, and is of merely customary use.

AUTHORITIES.--Sir N. Harris Nicolas, History of the Royal
Navy; La Ronciere, Histoire de la marine francarse;
Youge, Geschiedenis van het Nederlandsche Zeewezen; C.
Fernandez Duro, Historia de la Armada de Castilea. (D. H.)

ADMIRALTY ADMINISTRATION. 1. The Administrative System.--

British Empire.

That the navy (q.v.) is the only real defence of the
British islands has been recognized by English people ever
since the days of King Offa, who died in 796, leaving to his
successors the admirable lesson that ``he who would be secure
on land must be supreme at sea.'' The truth of the lesson
thus learnt is sanctioned by all the experience of English
history, and parliament has repeatedly enforced the fact.  The
navy is the only force that can safeguard the British islands
from hostile descents; it is the only force that can protect
their vast sea-borne commerce and food supplies; by giving
safety to the home country it sets British troops free for
operations abroad, and makes their passage secure; and thus,
as also by giving command of the sea, the fleet is the means
by which the empire is guarded and has become a true imperial
bond.  It is natural for British admiralty administration
to be taken here as the type of an efficient system.

The Board of Admiralty.

British naval administration is conducted by the Board of
Admiralty, and the function of that board is the maintenance
and expansion of the fleet in accordance with the policy of
the government, and the supplying of it with trained officers
and men; its distribution throughout the world; and its
preservation in readiness and efficiency in all material and
personal respects.  The character of the Admiralty Board is
peculiar to the British constitution, and it possesses certain
features which distinguish it from other departments of the
state.  The business it conducts is very great and complex,
and the machinery by which its work is done has grown with
the expansion of that business.  The whole system of naval
administration has been developed historically, and is
not the product of the organizing skill of one or a few
individuals, but an organic growth possessing marked and special
characteristics.  The Admiralty Board derives its character
from the fact that it represents the lord high admiral, and
that its powers and operation depend much more upon usage
than upon those instruments which actually give it authority,
and which, it may be remarked, are not in harmony among
themselves.  The executive operations are conducted by a
series of civil departments which have undergone many changes
before reaching their present constitution and relation
to the Board.  The salient characteristic of the admiralty
is a certain flexibility and elasticity with which it
works.  Its members are not, in a rigid sense, heads of
departments.  Subject to the necessary and constitutional
supremacy of tho cabinet minister at their head, they are
jointly and co-equally ``commissioners for executing the
office of high admiral of the United Kingdom, and of the
territories thereunto belonging, and of high admiral of the
colonies and other dominions.'' The members of the Board are
in direct and constant communication with the first lord and
with one another, as also with the civil departments which
work under their control.  It was enjoined by James I. that
the principal officers and commissioners of the navy should
be in constant communication among themselves, consulting and
advising ``by common council and argument of most voices,''
and should live as near together as could conveniently
be, and should meet at the navy office at least twice a
week.  This system of intercommunication still exists in a
manner which no system of minutes could give; and it may be
remarked, as illustrative of the flexibility of the system,
that a Board may be formed on any emergency by two lords and a
secretary, and a decision arrived at then and there.  Such
an emergency board was actually constituted some years ago
on board the admiralty yacht in order to deal on the instant
with an event which had just occurred in the fleet.  At the
same time it must be remarked that, in practice, the first
lord being personally responsible under the orders in council,
the operations of the Board are dependent upon his direction.

History.

The present system of administering the navy dates from the
time of Henry VIII.  The naval business of the country had
so greatly expanded in his reign that we find the Admiralty
and Navy Board reorganized or established; and it is worthy
of remark that there existed at the time an ordnance branch,
the navy not yet being dependent in that matter upon the
War Department.1 The Navy Board administered the civil
departments under the admiralty, the directive and executive
duties of the lord high admiral remaining with the admiralty
office.  A little later the civil administration was vested
in a board of principal officers subordinate to the lord
high admiral, and we can henceforth trace the work of civil
administration being conducted under the navy and victualling
boards apart from, but yet subject to, the admiralty itself.
This was a system which continued during the time of all the
great wars, and was not abolished until 1832, when Sir James
Graham, by his reforms, put an end to what appeared a divided
control.  Whatever may have been the demerits of that system,
it sufficed to maintain the navy in the time of its greatest
achievements, and through all the wars which were waged with the
Spaniards, the Dutch and the French.  The original authority
for the present constitution of the Admiralty Board is found
in a declaratory act (Admiralty Act 1690), in which it is
enacted that ``all and singular authorities, jurisdictions
and powers which, by act of parliament or otherwise, had been
lawfully vested'' in the lord high admiral of England had always
appertained, and did and should appertain, to the commissioners
for executing the office for the time being ``to all intents
and purposes as if the said commissioners were lord high
admiral of England.'' The admiralty commission was dissolved
in 1701, and reconstituted on the death of Prince George of
Denmark, lord high admiral in 1709.  From that time forward,
save for a short period in 1827-1828, when the duke of Clarence
was lord high admiral, the office has remained in commission.

A number of changes have been made since the amalgamation of
the admiralty and the Navy Board by Sir James Graham in 1832
(see NAVY, History), but the general principle remains the
same, and the constitution of the Admiralty Board and civil
departments is described below.  The Board consists of the
first lord and four naval lords with a civil lord, who in
theory are jointly responsible, and are accustomed to meet
sometimes daily, but at all times frequently; and the system
developed provides for the subdivision of labour, and yet for
the co-ordinated exertion of effort.  The system has worked
well in practice, and has certainly won the approval and the
admiration of many statesmen.  Lord George Hamilton said,
before the Royal Commission on Civil Establishments, 1887,
that ``It has this advantage, that you have all departments
represented round a table, and that if it is necessary to take
quick action, you can do in a few minutes that which it would
take hours under another system to do''; and the report of the
Royal Commission of 1889 remarked that ``The constitution of
the Board of Admiralty appears to us well designed, and to be
placed under present regulations on a satisfactory footing.''

Powers.

The special characteristics of the Admiralty Board which have
been described are accompanied by a very peculiar and noteworthy
feature, which is not without relation to the untrammelled and
undefined operations of the admiralty.  This feature arises from
the discrepancy between the admiralty patent and the orders in
council, for the admiralty is not administered according to
the terms of the patent which invests it with authority, and
its operations raise a singular point in constitutional law.

The legal origin of the powers exercised by the first lord
and the Board itself is indeed curiously obscure.  Under
the patent the full power and authority are conferred upon
``any two or more'' of the commissioners, though, in the
patent of Queen Anne, the grant was to ``any three or more
of you.'' It was under the Admiralty Act 1832 that two lords
received the necessary authority to legalize any action of
the Board; but already, under an act of 1822, two lords had
been empowered to sign so long as the Board consisted of six
members.  We therefore find that the legal authority of
the Board under the patent is vested in the Board; but in
the order in council of the 14th of January 1869 the sole
responsibility of the first lord was officially laid down, and
in the order in council of the 19th of March 1872 the first
lord was made ``responsible to your Majesty and to parliament
for all the business of the admiralty.'' As a matter of
fact, the authority of the first lord, independent of his
colleagues, had existed in an undefined manner from ancient
times.  Before a select committee of the House of Commons
in 1861 the duke of Somerset stated that he considered the
first lord responsible, that he had always ``acted under that
impression,'' and that he believed ``all former first lords
were of this opinion''; while Sir James Graham said that ``the
Board of Admiralty could never work, whatever the patent might
be, unless the first lord were supreme, and did exercise
constantly supreme and controlling authority.'' It is not,
therefore, surprising to find that there has been undoubtedly
direct government without a Board.  Thus, in the operations
conducted against the French channel ports in 1803-1804, Lord
Melville, then first lord, took steps of great importance
without the knowledge of his colleagues, though he afterwards
bowed to their views, which did not coincide with his own.
Again, when Lord Gambier was sent to Copenhagen in 1807, he
was instructed to obey all orders from the king, through the
principal secretary of state for war, and in this way received
orders to attack Copenhagen, which were unknown to all but the
first lord.  In a similar way the secretary of the admiralty
was despatched to Paris in 1815 with instructions to issue
orders as if from the Board of Admiralty when directed to do
so by the foreign secretary who accompanied him, and these
orders resulted in Napoleon's capture.  These instances were
cited, except the first of them, by Sir James Graham before
the select committee of the House of Commons in 1861, in
order to illustrate the elastic powers under the patent which
enabled the first lord to take immediate action in matters
that concerned the public safety.  It is not surprising that
this peculiar feature of admiralty administration should
have attracted adverse criticism, and have led some minds
to regard the Board as ``a fiction not worth keeping up.''

Between 1860 and 1870 the sittings of the Board ceased
to have the effective character they had once possessed.
During the administration of Mr Childers,2 first lord
from 1868 to 1871 in Mr Gladstone's cabinet, a new system
was introduced by which the free intercommunication of the
members of the Board was hampered, and its sittings were quite
discontinued.  The case of the ``Captain'' led, however, to
a return to the older practice.  The ``Captain'' was a low
freeboard masted turret ship, designed by Captain Cowper Phipps
Coles, R.N. Competent critics believed that she would be
unsafe, and said so before she was built; but the admiralty
of Lord Derby's cabinet of 1866 gave their consent to her
construction.  She was commissioned early in 1870, and
capsized in the Bay of Biscay on the 7th of September of that
year.  Mr Childers, who was nominally responsible for
allowing her to be commissioned, distributed blame right and
left, largely upon men who had not approved of the ship at
all, and had been exonerated from all share of responsibility
for allowing her to be built.  The disaster was justly held
to show that a civilian first lord cannot dispense with the
advantage of constant communication with his professional
advisers.  When Mr Childers retired from the admiralty in
March 1871, his successor, Mr Goschen (Viscount Goschen),
reverted to the original system.  It cannot be said,
however, that the question of ultimate responsibility is well
defined.  The duke of Somerset, Sir James Graham and Sir
Charles Wood, afterwards Lord Halifax, held the view that
the first lord was singly and personally responsible for the
sufficiency of the fleet.  Sir Arthur Hood expressed before
the House of Commons committee in 1888 the view that the Board
collectively were responsible; whilst Sir Anthony Hoskins
assigned the responsibility to the first lord alone with
certain qualifications, which is a just and reasonable view.

2. Admiralty Organization.--Under the organization which now
exists, the Board of Admiralty consists of the first lord, the
first and second naval lords, the additional naval lord and
controller, the junior naval lord and the civil lord, who are
commissioners for executing the office of lord high admiral,
and with them are the parliamentary and financial secretary
and the permanent secretary.  As has been explained, the first
lord is responsible under the orders in council to the crown
and to parliament for all admiralty business.  In the hands
of the other lords and secretaries rest duties very carefully
defined, and they direct the civil departments which are the
machinery of naval administration.  The first naval lord, the
second naval lord and the junior naval lord are responsible
to the first lord in relation to so much of the business
concerning the personnel of the navy and the movements and
condition of the fleet as is confided to them, and the additional
naval lord or controller is responsible in the same way for
the material of the navy; while the parliamentary secretary
has charge of finance and some other business, and the civil
lord of all shore works--i.e. docks, buildings, &c.--and
the permanent secretary of special duties.  The first lord of
the admiralty is the cabinet minister through whom the navy
receives its political direction in accordance with imperial
policy.  He is the representative of the navy in parliament,
which looks to him for everything concerned with naval
affairs.  The members of the Board are his advisers; but if their
advice is not accepted, they have no remedy except protest or
resignation.  It cannot be denied that the responsibility
of the members of the Board, if their advice should be
disregarded, must cease, and it is sufficiently obvious that the
remedy of resignation will not always commend itself to those
whose position and advancement depend upon the favour of the
government.  Something will be said a little later concerning
the working of the system and the relation of the first lord
to the Board in regard to the navy estimates.  In addition
to general direction and supervision, the first lord has
special charge of promotions and removals from the service,
and of matters relating to honours and rewards, as well as
the appointments of flag officers, captains and other officers
of the higher ranks.  With him rests also the nomination for
the major part to naval cadetships and assistant clerkships.

Apart from the first lord, the first naval lord is the most
important officer of the Board of Admiralty.  It seems to be
unquestionable that Sir James Graham was right in describing
the senior naval lord as his ``first naval adviser.''
Theoretically, the first naval lord is responsible for the
personnel of the fleet; but in practice he is necessarily
concerned with the material also as soon as it is put into
commission, and with the actual commissioning of it.  It
is correct to say that he is chiefly concerned with the
employment of the fleet, though his advice has weight in
regard to its character and sufficiency, and is always sought
in relation to the shipbuilding programme.  Broadly speaking,
the first naval lord's duties and authority cover the fighting
efficiency and employment of the fleet, and upon him and
upon the controller the naval business of the country largely
falls.  He directs the operations of the admiral superintendent
of naval reserves in regard to ships, the hydrographer, the
director of naval ordnance, so far as the gunnery and torpedo
training establishments are concerned, and the naval intelligence
department, and he has charge of all matters relating to
discipline.  The mobilization of the fleet, both in regard
to personnel and material, also falls to him, and among
a mass of other business in his department are necessary
preparations for the protection of trade and the fisheries.
It will thus be seen that the first naval lord is the chief
officer of the Board of Admiralty, and that the operations of
the other members of the Board all have relation to his work,
which is no other than preparation for war.  It may here be
remarked that it appears most necessary to change the naval
lords frequently, so that there may always be in the Board
some one who possesses recent touch with the service afloat.

The second naval lord may be regarded as the coadjutor of
the first naval lord, with whose operations his duties are
very closely related, though, like every other member of the
Board, he is subordinate only to the first lord.  The duties of
the second naval lord are wholly concerned with the personnel
of the fleet, the manning of the navy and mobilization.  In
his hands rests the direction of naval education, training
and the affairs of the royal marine forces.  The training
establishments and colleges are in his hands.  He appoints
navigating officers and lieutenants to ships (unless they be
to command), sub-lieutenants, midshipmen and cadets, engineer
officers, gunners and boatswains, and supervises the management
of the reserve.  In his province is the mobilization of the
personnel, including the coastguard and the royal naval
reserve.  Necessarily, the first and second naval lords
work together, and upon occasion can replace each other.3

Most important are the duties that fall to the additional
naval lord and controller.  He has charge of everything that
concerns the material of the fleet, and his operations are the
complement of the work of the first naval lord.  A great number
of civil departments are directed by the controller, and his
survey and supervision extend to the dockyards and building
establishments of the fleet.  He submits plans to the Board
for new ships, and is responsible for carrying into effect
its decisions in regard to all matters of construction and
equipment.  The building operations both in the dockyards and
in private yards are therefore under his supervision.  In regard
to all these matters the director of naval construction and
the engineer-in-chief are the heads of the civil departments
that carry on the work.  Again, the controller is responsible
in regard to armament--both gunnery and torpedo--and it
is the work of his department to see to all gunnery and
torpedo fittings, and to magazines, shell-rooms and electric
apparatus.  The officer in immediate charge of this branch of
the controller's work, under his direction, is the director of
naval ordnance.  In regard to work at the dockyards (q.v.)
the controller is aided by the director of dockyards.  He
supervises this officer in preparing the programme of work done
in the dockyards, the provision of the material required and
its appropriation to particular work in accordance with the
programme.  Other officers who conduct great operations under
the authority and responsibility of the controller are the
director of stores, who maintains all necessary supplies of
coal and stores at home and abroad, and examines the store
accounts of ships, and the inspector of dockyard expense
accounts, who has charge of the accounts of dockyard expenditure
and seeing that outlay is charged as directed.  In regard to
the navy estimates, the controller, through his subordinates,
is responsible for the preparation and administration of the
votes for shipbuilding and naval armaments, except in regard
to some sub-headings of the former, and thus in recent years
for the expenditure of something like L. 15,000,000 or over.

The junior naval lord has in his hands the very important
duties that are concerned with the transport, medical and
victualling services, as well as the regulation of hospitals,
the charge of coaling arrangements for the fleet and other
duties that conduce to the practical efficiency of the
navy.  He also appoints chaplains, naval instructors,
medical officers (except in special cases) and officers
of the accountant branch.  A vast business in regard to
the internal economy of ships greatly occupies the junior
lord.  He has charge, for example, of uniforms, prize-money,
bounties, naval savings banks, and pensions to seamen and
marines and the widows of naval and marine officers.  The
work of the junior naval lord places under his direction the
director of transports, the director-general of the medical
department, the director of victualling, and, in regard to
particular matters, the director of stores, the accountant-
general, the chaplain of the fleet, and the Intelligence
Department, so far as the junior lord's department is concerned.

The civil lord supervises, through the director of works,
the Department of Works, dealing with admiralty buildings and
works, construction and labour, contracts and purchases of
building stores and land.  He is also responsible for the
civil staff of the naval establishments, except in regard to
certain officials, and for duties connected with Greenwich
Hospital, compassionate allowances, charitable funds,
and business of like character.  The accountant-general,
in regard to these matters, is directed by him, and the
director of Greenwich Hospital is under his authority.

The parliamentary and financial secretary is responsible
for the finance of the department, the navy estimates and
matters of expenditure generally, and is consulted in regard
to all matters involving reference to the treasury.  His
position in regard to estimates and expenditure is very
important, and the accountant- general is his officer, while
he has financial control over the director of contracts.  The
financial secretary also examines proposals for new expenditure.

A most important official of the Board is the permanent secretary,
whose office has been described as the ``nerve-centre'' of the
admiralty, since it is the channel through which papers for
the lords of the admiralty pass for the intercommunication
of departments and for the correspondence of the Board.
The tradition of admiralty procedure largely rests with the
permanent secretary, and it is most important that he should
be chosen from one of the branches, and should have served in
as many of them at possible, in order that he may possess a
thorough knowledge of the theory and practice of the admiralty
system.  In addition to the secretarial duties of the
permanent secretary's department, the permanent secretary
has charge of the military, naval and legal branches, each
under a principal clerk, the civil branch and the record
office.  The various branches deal with matters concerning the
commissioning of ships and the distribution of the fleet, and
the manning and discipline of the navy, with other associated
matters, being the channels for the operations of the naval
lords.  It is a highly important function of the department
of the permanent secretary to preserve the inter-related
working of the various departments, and to keep unbroken the
thread of administration when a new Board is constituted.

3. Business and Responsibility.--The manner in which the
Admiralty Board conducts the great operations under its
charge has been indicated.  It would be impossible here to
describe it in detail, though something concerning the civil
departments, which are the machinery of naval administration,
will be found below.  It will, however, indicate the character
of admiralty administration if we explain to some extent the
conditions which surround the preparation of the estimates and
the shipbuilding programme, the more so because this matter
has been the battle-ground of critics and supporters of the
admiralty.  It has already been pointed out that the naval
lords, if they dissent from the estimates that are presented,
have no remedy but that of protest or resignation.  Into the
controversies that have arisen as to the responsibility of the
several lords it is unnecessary to enter here.  The Admiralty
Board possesses, in fact, the character of a council, and its
members can only be held responsible for their advice.  It
has even been contended that, in the circumstances, it should
not be incumbent upon them to sign the navy estimates, and
there have been instances in which the estimates have been
presented to parliament without the signature of certain naval
lords.  It is in any case obvious, as has been explained
above, that the ultimate responsibility must always rest
with the first lord and the cabinet, by whom the policy
of the country is shaped and directed.  In the report of
the Hartington Commission in 1890 (the chairman of which
became 8th duke of Devonshire) to inquire into the civil
and professional administration of the Naval and Military
Departments, and the relation of these departments to each
other and to the treasury, the following recommendation occurs:
``On the first lord alone should rest the responsibility
of deciding on the provision to be made for the naval
requirements of the empire, and the existence of a council
should be held in no degree to diminish that responsibility.''

Two conditions primarily rule the determination as to the
strength of the navy.  They are, the foreign policy of the
Cabinet, and, on the ground of practical expediency, the
amount of money available. ``The estimates and strength
of the navy,'' said Rear-Admiral Hotham before the select
committee on the navy estimates, 1888, ``are matters for
the cabinet to determine.'' ``Expense,'' said Sir Anthony
Hoskins, ``governs everything.'' The needs of the empire and
financial considerations, as it is scarcely necessary to remark,
may prove to be antithetical conditions governing the same
problem, and in practice it follows that the Admiralty Board
directs its operations in accordance with the views of the
government, but limited by the public funds which are known
to be available.  Such considerations suggest a practical
limitation of responsibility, so far as the several lords
of the admiralty are concerned, but it may be presumed to
be their duty individually or collectively to place their
views before the first lord; and Lord George Hamilton told
the select committee of 1888 that, if his colleagues should
represent to him that a certain expenditure was indispensable
for the efficiency of the service, he would recognize
that all financial considerations should be put on one
side.  The commissioners reported that this was the only
common-sense view of the matter, and that it was difficult
to see on what other footing the control of navy expenditure,
consistently with responsibility to parliament, could be placed.

Two practical considerations are bound up with the shipbuilding
programme--the carrying forward of the work in hand and the
new construction to be begun, since it is absolutely necessary
that proper provision should be made for the employment and
distribution of labour in the dockyards, and for the purchase
of necessary materials.  Through the director of naval
construction and the director of dockyards, the controller
is kept informed as to the progress of work and the amount of
labour required, as also in regard to the building facilities
of the yards.  These matters, in a general way, must form a
subject of discussion between the first naval lord and the
controller, who will report on the subject to the first
lord.  The accountant-general, as the financial officer of the
Board, will be called upon to place the proposed estimates
upon a financial basis, and when the views of the cabinet
are known as to the amount of money available, the several
departments charged with the duty of preparing the various
votes will proceed with that work.  The financial basis alluded
to is, of course, found in the estimates of the previous
year, modified by the new conditions that arise.  There has
been in past times a haphazard character in our shipbuilding
programmes, but with the introduction of the Naval Defence
Act of 1889, which looked ahead and was not content with
hand-to-mouth provision, a better state of things has grown
up, and with a larger sense of responsibility, a policy
characterized by something of continuity has been developed.
Certainly the largest factor in the better state of things has
been the growth of a strong body of public opinion as to the
supreme value of the navy for national and imperial welfare.

Another important and related matter that comes before
the Board of Admiralty is the character and design of
ships.  The naval members of the Board indicate the classes
and qualities desired, and it is the practice that the
sketch-design, presented in accordance with the instructions,
is fully discussed by the first naval lord and the controller,
and afterwards by the Board.  The design then takes further
shape, and when it has received the final sanction of the
Board it cannot be altered without the sanction of the same
authority.  A similar procedure is found in the other business
of the Admiralty Board, such as shore-works, docks and the
preparation of offensive and defensive plans of warfare--the
last being a very important matter that falls into the
operations of the Naval Intelligence Department, which has been
described, though not with perfect accuracy, and certainly
in no large sense, as ``the brain of the navy.'' That
department is under the direction of the first naval lord.

The shipbuilding programme may be described as the cornerstone
of the executive business of the admiralty, because upon it
depends very largely the preparation of all the other votes
relating to numbers, stores, victualling, clothing, &c. But
if the Admiralty Board is responsible through the first lord
for the preparation of the estimates, it is also charged
with the business of supervising expenditure.  In this matter
the financial secretary plays a large part, and is directed
to assist the spending department of the admiralty in their
duty of watching the progress of their liabilities and
disbursements.  Some notes on admiralty finance will be
found below (section 4). The shipbuilding votes set the
larger machinery of the admiralty in motion.  The executive
departments, except in regard to the hulls and machinery of
ships and the special requirements of the director of works,
do not make purchases of stores, that work resting with the
director of navy contracts.  Most of the important executive
and spending branches are in the department of the controller,
and it will be well, while we are dealing with the material
side of the navy, to describe briefly their character and
duties.  The civil branches of the navy tributary to the
controller are those of the director of naval construction,
the engineer-in-chief, the directors of naval ordnance, of
dockyards and of stores, and the inspector of dockyard expense
accounts.  The first duty of the controller is, as has been
explained, in relation to the design and construction of ships
and their machinery, and the executive officials who have
charge of that work are the director of naval construction
and the engineer-in-chief, whose operations are closely
interrelated.  A vast administrative stride has been made in
this particular branch of the admiralty.  The work of design
and construction now go forward together, and the admiralty
designers are in close touch with the work in hand at the
dockyards.  This has been largely brought about by the
institution, in 1883, of the royal corps of naval constructors,
whose members interchange their duties between the designing
of ships at the admiralty and practical work at the
dockyards.  It is through the director of naval construction
that many of the spending departments are set in motion, since
he is responsible both for the design of ships and for their
construction.  It deserves to be noticed, however, that a
certain obscurity exists in regard to the relative duties of
the director of naval construction and the director of dockyards
touching constructive works in the yards.  The former officer
has also charge of all the work given out to contract, though
it is the business of the dockyard officials to certify that
the conditions of the contract have been fulfilled.  In all
this work the director of naval construction collaborates with
the engineer-in-chief, who is an independent officer and not a
subordinate, and whose procedure in regard to machinery closely
resembles that adopted in the matter of contract-built ships.

The director of naval ordnance is another officer of the
Controller's Department whose operations are very closely
related to the duties of the director of naval construction,
and the relation is both intimate and sustained, for in
the Ordnance Department everything that relates to guns,
gun-mountings, magazines, torpedo apparatus, electrical
fittings for guns, and other electrical fittings is centred.
A singular feature of this branch of administration is that
the navy long since lost direct control of ordnance matters,
through the duties connected with naval gunnery, formerly in
the hands of the master-general of the ordnance, and those of
the Board of Ordnance--a department common to the sea and land
services--being vested in 1855 in the secretary of state for
war.  A more satisfactory state of things has grown up through
the appointment of the director of naval ordnance, taking the
place of the naval officer who formerly advised the director
of artillery at the War Office.  Expenditure on ordnance has
also been transferred from the army to the navy estimates, and
a Naval Ordnance Store Department has been created.  It cannot
be said that the condition is yet satisfactory, nor can it be
until the navy has control of and responsibility for its own
ordnance.  The assistant-director of torpedoes is an officer
instituted at the admiralty within recent years, and his duty is
to assist the director of naval ordnance in all torpedo matters.

The director of dockyards replaced the surveyor of dockyards in
1885, at about which time the inspector of dockyard expense
accounts was instituted.  It is upon the director of dockyards
(q.v.) that the responsibility of the controller devolves in
regard to the management of dockyards and naval establishments
at home and abroad, and to the performance of work in these
establishments, ship and boat building, maintenance, repairs and
refits.  In this department the programme for work in the dockyards
is prepared, as well as certain sections of the navy estimates.

We now come to the Stores Department, with the director of
stores as its chief.  This officer, about the year 1869,
took over the storekeeping duties previously vested in the
storekeeper- general.  The Naval Store Department is charged
with the custody and issue of naval, as distinguished from
victualling and ordnance stores, to be used in naval dockyards
and establishments for the building, fitting and repairing of
warships.  It has, however, no concern with stores that
belong to the Department of Works.  The business of the
director of stores is also to receive and issue the stores
for ships of all classes in commission and reserve, and he
deals with a vast array of objects and materials necessary
for the fleet, and with coals and coaling.  He frames the
estimates for his department, but his purchases are made
through the director of navy contracts.  In practice the
main business of the Stores Department is to see to the
provision of stores for the navy, and to the proper supply
of these at all the establishments, and for this purpose its
officials direct the movements of storeships, and arrange
for the despatch of colliers, the director being charged to
be ``careful to provide for His Majesty's ships on foreign
stations, and for the necessary supplies to foreign yards.''
Another important business of the director of stores is the
examination of the store accounts of ships as well as some other
accounts.  Although the director of stores is really in the
department of the controller, he is supervised in regard
to the coaling of the fleet by the junior naval lord.  The
inspector of dockyard expense accounts has been alluded
to.  He is the officer charged with keeping a record of
expenditure at the dockyards and of supervising expense accounts.

Expenditure.

It may be useful to add a note concerning the spending of the
money.  Within the controller's department, as has been
explained, are centred the more important spending branches of the
admiralty.  While the work of designing ships and preparing
plans is in progress, the director of stores, the director
of dockyards and other officials of that department concerned
are making preparation for the work.  The necessary stores,
comprising almost every imaginable class of materials, are
brought together, and the director of stores is specially charged
to obtain accurate information in regard to requirements.
He is not, however, a purchasing officer, that work being
undertaken by the director of navy contracts, who is concerned
with the whole business of supply, except in regard to hulls
and machinery of ships built by contract, and the special
requirements of the director of works.  At the same time,
the civil departments of the admiralty being held responsible
for the administration of the votes they compile, it is their
duty to watch the outlay of money, and to see that it is well
expended, the accountant-general being directed to assist
them in this work.  The system is closely jointed and well
administered, but it possesses a very centralized character,
which interferes to some extent with flexible working, and
with the progress of necessary repairs, especially in foreign
yards.  In so far as ships given out to contract are concerned
(and the same is the case in regard to propelling machinery
built by contract), the director of navy contracts plays no
part, the professional business being conducted through the
controller of the navy, who is advised thereon by the director
of naval construction and the engineer-in-chief.  The work
conducted in private establishments is closely watched by the
admiralty officials, and is thoroughly tested, but, mutatis
mutandis, the system in regard to contract-built ships is
practically the same as that which prevails in the dockyards.

4. Naval Finance: The Accountant-General's Department.-- The
subject of naval finance is one of great complexity and of vast
importance.  The large sums of money with which the admiralty
deals in the way of both estimates and expenditure, amounting
recently to about L. 30,000,000 annually, implies the existence
of the great organization which is found in the department of
the accountant-general of the navy.  Under the authority of
the first lord, the parliamentary and financial secretary is
responsible for the finance of the admiralty in general, and
for the estimates and the expenditure, the accounts and the
purchases, and for all matters which concern the relations
of the admiralty to the treasury and to other departments
of the government; and in all the practical and advisory
work the accountant-general is his officer, acting as his
assistant, with the director of naval contracts who, under
the several lords, is concerned with the business of purchase.

The organization of the accountant-general's department has
undergone many changes, and the resulting condition is the
outcome of various modifications which have had for their
purpose to give to this officer a measure of financial
control.  There have been various views as to what the
duties of the accountant- general should be.  After the
reorganization of the admiralty by Sir James Graham in
1832, the accountant-general was regarded as a recording
and accounting officer, wholly concerned with receipt and
expenditure.  His duties were limited to the auditing of
accounts, payments and expenditure generally.  Owing to changes
effected in 1869, which made the parliamentary secretary,
assisted by the civil lord, responsible for finance at the
admiralty, bringing the naval and victualling store departments
into his charge. the accountant-general was invested with
the power of criticizing these accounts financially, though
he did not as yet possess any financial control, and the
position was little changed by fresh rules made in 1876.  It
was not until 1880 that the powers of the accountant-general
were enlarged in this direction.  It was then ordered that he
should be consulted before any expenditure which the estimates
had not provided for was incurred, and before any money voted
was applied to other purposes than those for which it was
provided.  The effect of this order was not happy, for the
accountant-general could not undertake these duties without
setting up friction with the departments whose accounts he
criticized.  It was contemplated by the admiralty in 1885 to
make the accountant-general the assistant of the financial
secretary, and to raise him to the position of a permanent
officer of finance instead of being an officer of account
invested with imperfect authority in the direction of
control.  A select committee of the House of Commons reported
that the accountant-general possessed no financial control
over the departments, and that there was an urgent need for
establishing such a control.  At the time the position of
that officer did not enable him to exercise any sufficient
general supervision over expenditure, and there was no
permanent high official expressly charged with finance.
Accordingly, after being submitted to a departmental committee,
a fresh arrangement was made in November 1885, whereby the
accountant-general, under the authority of the financial
secretary, was given a direct share in the preparation of the
estimates.  His written concurrence was required before the
final approval of the votes, and each vote was referred to
him for his approval or observations, and he was to exercise
a financial review of expenditure and to see that it was
properly accounted for.  He became, in fact, ``the officer
to be consulted on all matters involving an expenditure of
naval funds.'' It was believed that economical administration
would result; but much opposition was raised to the principle
that was involved of submitting the proposals of responsible
departments to the inexpert criticism of a financial
authority.  Mr Main, assistant accountant-general, stated
before the Royal Commission on Civil Establishments, 1887,
that the effect had been to develop a tendency to withhold
information or to afford only partial information, as well
as to cause friction when questions were raised affecting
expenditure, accompanied by protests, even in those cases
in which these questions were manifestly of a legitimate
character.  The result was discouraging, and in the opinion
of Mr Main had done much to weaken financial control and to
defeat the purpose of the order.  It is unnecessary to detail
the various changes that have been made by the institution of
dockyard expense accounts in the department of the controller,
and by various other alterations introduced.  The treasury
instituted an independent audit of store accounts which greatly
affected the position of the accountant-general, and the Royal
Commission on Civil Establishments reported that the Board
of Admiralty were of opinion that they could dispense with
the accountant- general's review altogether.  The commission
was, however, of opinion that the accountant-general should be
the permanent assistant and adviser, on all matters involving
the outlay of public money, of the financial secretary.

The operations of the accountant-general are now conducted
in accordance with the order in council of the 18th of
November 1885, and of an office memorandum issued shortly
afterwards.  He thus acts as deputy and assistant of the
parliamentary and financial secretary, and works with a
finance committee within the admiralty, of which the financial
secretary is president and the accountant-general himself
vice-president.  The duties of the department are precisely
defined as consisting in the criticism of the annual estimates
as to their sufficiency before they are passed, and in advising
the financial and parliamentary secretary as to their satisfying
the ordinary conditions of economy.  The accountant-general
also reviews the progress of liabilities and expenditure, and
in relation to dockyard expenditure he considers the proposed
programme of construction as it affects labour, material and
machinery.  He further reviews current expenditure, or the
employment of labour and material, as distinguished from cash
payments of the yard, as well as proposals for the spending of
money on new work or repairs of any kind for which estimates
are currently proposed.  The accountant-general's department
has three principal divisions: the estimates division, the
navy pay division, and the invoices and claims division.  In
the first of these is the ledger branch, occupied with the
work of accounts under the several votes and sub-heads of
votes, and with preparing the navy appropriation account,
as well as the estimates and liabilities branch, in which
the navy estimates are largely prepared after having been
proposed and worked out in the executive departments of the
admiralty.  There are also ships' establishments and salaries
branches.  The navy pay division includes the full and half-pay
branch and a registry section.  There is also the seamen's pay
branch, which audits ships' ledgers and wages, and has charge
of all matters concerning the wages of seamen.  The victualling
audit is also in this branch, and is concerned with payments
for savings in lieu of victualling and some other matters.
Further, the navy pay division examines ships' ledgers, and
is concerned with the service, characters, ages, &c., of men
as well as with allotments and pensions The third division of
the accountant-general's department, known as that of invoices
and claims, conducts a vast amount of clerical work through
many branches, and is concerned with the management of naval
savings banks and matters touching prize-money and bounties.

The importance of this great department of the admiralty
cannot be overrated.  It is, in the first place, of supreme
importance that the navy estimates should be placed upon a
sound financial basis; and in practice the Board requires
the concurrence of the accountant-general to the votes before
they are approved, and thus in greater or less degree this
officer is concerned in the preparation of every one of the
votes.  He does not concern himself with matters of larger
policy outside the domain of finance, and it must be
confessed that there appears to be something anomalous in
his ``review'' of naval expenditure.  It is, however, a mark
of the flexibility or elasticity of the admiralty system
that in practice the operations of the accountant- general's
department work easily, and that admiralty finance is
recognized as having been placed upon a sound and efficient
basis.  There are important financial officers outside the
accountant-general's department concerned with assisting the
controller.  The inspector of dockyard expense accounts,
who is entirely in the controller's department, enables
him to exercise careful supervision over expenditure and
the distribution of funds to special purposes.  This work,
however, though highly important, is merely one part of the
system of financial control.  Within recent years the bonds
have been considerably tightened, and the work is untainted by
corruption.  It is true that in exercising rigid supervision
over expenditure the work has become more centralized than is
desirable, and it is a mark of change within recent years
that local officers have been in larger measure deprived of
independent powers.  This, indeed, is a necessary condition
of financial control, or at least a condition which it
is not easy to change where rigid control is necessary.

5. Mobilization of the Fleet.--By the mobilization of the
fleet is meant the placing of naval resources upon a war footing,
in readiness in all material and personal respects for hostile
operations.  A complete mobilization for purposes of practice
in peace time would dislocate seafaring life in a manner which
would be justifiable only by actual war.  Thus no country in
peace manoeuvres calls out all its naval reserves, or makes
use of the auxiliary cruisers--merchant ships for which a
subvention is paid, and which are constructed with a view to
use in warfare.  Experience has shown that when vessels are
commissioned they are liable to numerous small breakdowns
of their machinery if they are manned by crews who have
no familiarity with them.  Many accidents of this kind had
occurred in the British navy at manoeuvres, though it could
not be shown that the vessel was defective, or that the crew
was either untrained or negligent.  These experiments led the
admiralty to adopt a new system in 1904, designed to obviate
the risk that vessels would be crippled at a critical moment
by want of acquaintance on the part of the crew with their
machinery.  Under this system all vessels which are considered
to be available for war are divided into two classes:--first,
those in full commission which constitute the different
squadrons maintained at all times; and secondly, those which
form the reserve and are kept in partial commission--or rather
partially manned though in commission.  These are kept at
the home ports--Chatham, Portsmouth, Plymouth--in reserve
squadrons under a flag-officer who will command them in
war.  Each vessel has a captain, a second in command, and a
proportion of other officers including engineer, navigating
and torpedo officers.  Two-fifths of her full complement of
crew are always on board, and they include the most skilled
men needed for the proper management of the machinery
of all kinds--more especially that of the torpedoes and
guns.  These vessels go to sea for periodical practice.  When
therefore line fleet must be mobilized for war it will only
be necessary to fill up the number of trained men by the less
skilled hands from the naval barracks occupied by the sailors
not belonging to any particular ship, or from the naval
reserve.  All ranks of the navy are placed on a roster by
which they successively serve in ships in full commission, are
quartered in the naval barracks and drafted from them to the
ships of the reserve, from which they return to the sea-going
ships.  It is calculated that there are always men enough in
the barracks to complete the crews of a small squadron for
emergency service without disturbing the regular routine of
the peace establishment.  The British admiralty may claim
that though the machinery at its command in the past was not
perfect it has commonly been able to send a squadron to sea
more rapidly than any other power in Europe.  Much depends on
the arrangement of the stores as well as the disposition of the
men.  The introduction at the end of the 18th century of the
businesslike practice of keeping the fittings of each ship
together by themselves, did much to facilitate the rapid
mobilization of a portion of the British fleet in 1790 which
impressed all Europe.  The prompt manning of a special service
squadron in 1895 in consequence of the troubles then arising
in connexion with the former South African Republic, showed
that even before its plans for mobilization were completed
the admiralty had its resources well in hand. (R. V. H.)

Other countries.

As regards the navies of countries other than Great Britain,
their government is in the hands of ministers or departments
variously constituted.  The Russian admiralty is a highly
organized bureau, divided into departments, and under the supreme
control of a high admiral, usually a grand duke of the Imperial
House.  The German admiralty was, till 1872, a branch of the War
Office, though governed by a vice-admiral under a naval prince
of the reigning family.  In 1872 it was severed from the War
Office, though remaining an appanage thereof, and a general
of the army was placed at its head.  The French minister of
marine, assisted by a permanent staff, controls the navy
of France on a highly centralized system of administration;
but the departments are well organized, and work well.  The
Italian fleet is governed on principles analogous to the
French, but with a large admixture of the English representative
element.  The American system is worth describing in more detail.

United States Navy Department.

The president of the United States is commander-in-chief
of the navy--a constitutional prerogative which he seldom
asserts.  The Navy Department is administered by a civilian
secretary of the navy--a cabinet officer appointed by the
president--who exercises general supervision.  Next in
authority is the assistant-secretary, also a civilian nominee,
who acts as an assistant, and has, besides, certain specific
duties, including general supervision of the marine corps,
naval militia and naval stations beyond the continental
limits of the United States.  The details of administration
are supervised by the chiefs of bureaus, of which there are
eight.  They are appointed by the president from the navy
list for a period of four years, and have the rank of
rear-admiral while serving in this capacity.  They have
direct control of the business and correspondence pertaining
to their respective bureaus; and orders emanating from
them have the same force as though issued by the secretary.

The bureau of navigation is the executive, or military, bureau,
and as such promulgates and enforces the orders and regulations
prescribed by the secretary; it has general direction of the
procurement, education, assignment and discipline of the
personnel.  It also controls the movements of ships, including
the authorization of manoeuvres and drills, such as target
practice.  The bureau of equipment has charge of all electrical
appliances, compasses, charts and fuel, and generally all
that relates to the equipment of vessels, exclusive of those
articles that come naturally under the cognizance of other
bureaus.  It has charge of the naval observatory, where the
Ephemeris is prepared annually, and of the hydrographic
office, where charts, sailing directions, notices to mariners,
&c., are issued.  The bureau of ordnance has charge of the gun
factory, proving ground, and torpedo station, and all naval
magazines; all the details that pertain to the manufacture,
tests, installation or storage of all offensive and defensive
apparatus, including armour, ammunition hoists, ammunition rooms,
&c., though much of the actual installation is performed by the
bureau of construction after consultation with the bureau of
ordnance.  The bureau of construction and repair has charge
of the designing, building and repairing of hulls of ships,
including turrets, spars and many other accessories.  It builds
all boats, has charge of the docking of vessels and the care of
ships in reserve.  The chief of this bureau is usually a naval
constructor.  The bureau of steam engineering has charge of all
that relates to the designing, building and repairing of steam
machinery, and of all the steam connexions on board ship.
The bureau of supplies and accounts procures and distributes
provisions, clothing and supplies of the pay department afloat,
and acts as the purchasing agent for all materials used at
naval stations, except for the medical department and marine
corps.  It also has charge of the disbursement of money
and keeping of accounts.  The chief of this bureau is a pay
officer.  The bureau of medicine and surgery has charge
of all naval hospitals, dispensaries and laboratories,
and of all that pertains to the care of sick afloat and
ashore.  The chief of this bureau is a medical officer.
The bureau of yards and docks has charge of construction
and maintenance of wet and dry docks, buildings, railways,
cranes, and generally all permanent constructions at naval
stations.  The chief of this bureau is often a civil engineer.

Under the cognizance of the secretary's office is the office
of the judge-advocate-general, an officer selected by the
president from the navy list for a term of four years, with the
rank of captain while so serving.  He is legal adviser to the
department, and reviews the records of all courts and statutory
boards.  Under the cognizance of the assistant-secretary's
office is the office of naval intelligence, which collates
information on naval matters obtainable at home and
abroad.  The staff is composed of naval officers on shore
duty, the senior in charge being usually a captain, and known
as chief intelligence officer.  Several boards are employed
under the various bureaus, or directly as advisers to the
secretary.  Some are permanent in character, while others
are composed of officers employed on other duty, and are
convoked periodically or when required.  The naval policy
board is composed of officers of high rank, and meets once
a month; its duties conform to those of the general staff in
armies.  The board of construction consists of the chiefs of
bureaus of ordnance, equipment, construction and repair, steam
engineering, and the chief intelligence officer.  Its duty
is to advise the secretary in all matters relating to the
construction policy in detail.  The general construction policy
is suggested by the naval policy board.  The board of inspection
and survey is composed of representatives of all bureaus, who
inspect vessels soon after commission and on return from a
cruise, and report on the condition of the ship and efficiency
of its personnel; it also conducts the official trials of new
vessels.  The boards for the examination of officers for
promotion are composed of officers of the corps to which the
candidate belongs and of medical officers.  Every officer
is examined professionally, morally and physically at each
promotion.  The Navy Department is located at Washington,
D.C., and occupies a building together with the State and War
Departments (the latter being charged solely with army affairs).

The personnel (see also under NAVY) is limited in number by
law.  The engineer corps was abolished in 1899, the then
engineer-officers becoming line officers in their respective
relative grades.  Line officers are the military and executive
branch, and are required besides to perform engineer duties.
They are graduates of the Naval Academy.  Vacancies occurring
in the construction corps are filled from the graduates of
the Naval Academy having the highest standing in scholarship,
who are given a two years' graduate course, generally abroad,
on being graduated from the Academy, and are then appointed
assistant naval constructors.  All other staff officers are
appointed directly from civil life by the president, from
candidates passing prescribed examinations.  Each representative
and delegate in Congress has authority to nominate a candidate
for naval cadet whenever his congressional district has no
representative in the Naval Academy.  The candidate must be
a resident of the district which the congressman represents,
between fifteen and twenty years old, and must pass prescribed
mental and physical examinations.  The president is allowed
ten representatives at the Academy at all times, appointed
``at large,'' and one appointed from the District of Columbia.

The course of instruction at the Academy is four years,
each comprising eight months' study, three months' practice
cruise, and one month's furlough.  At the expiration of four
years, cadets are sent to cruising ships for two years'
further instruction, and are then commissioned ensigns.
After three years' further sea service, ensigns are promoted
to lieutenants (junior grade).  After this, promotion is
dependent upon seniority alone, the senior officer in any
grade being promoted to the lowest number in the next higher
grade when a vacancy occurs in the higher grade, and not
before.  All officers are retired on three-fourths sea pay at
the age of sixty-two, or whenever a board of medical officers
certifies that an officer is not physically qualified to
perform all duties of his grade.  A few officers are allowed
to retire voluntarily in certain circumstances, to stimulate
promotion.  Any officer on the retired list may be ordered by
the secretary to such duty as he may be able to perform: this
is a legal provision to provide for emergencies.  Promotion in
the staff corps is dependent upon seniority, though relative
rank in the lower grades in some corps somewhat depends upon
promotion of line officers of the same length of service,
and accounts for the existence of staff officers in the same
grade having different ranks.  All sea-going officers, after
commission, are required to spend three years at sea, and are
then usually employed on shore-duty for a time, according to
the needs of the service--short terms of shore-duty thereafter
alternating with three-year cruises.  This rule is adhered
to as strictly as circumstances will permit.  Shore-duty
includes executive or distinctly professional duties in the
Navy Department, under its bureaus, and at navy yards and
stations; inspection of ordnance, machinery, dynamos, &c., under
construction by private firms; duty on numerous temporary or
permanent boards; instructors at the Naval Academy; recruiting
duty; charge of branch hydrographic offices; inspection duty
in the lighthouse establishment; at state nautical schools;
as attaches with United States legations; and many others.
Naval constructors (usually), civil engineers and professors of
mathematics are continuously employed on shore-duty connected
with their professions, the Naval Observatory, Nautical
Almanac and the Naval Academy employing most of the last.

Warrant officers (boatswains, gunners, carpenters, sailmakers,
warrant machinists and pharmacists) are appointed by the
secretary, preference being given to enlisted men in the navy
who have shown marked ability for the positions.  They must be
between twenty-one and thirty-five years of age, and pass an
examination.  After serving satisfactorily for one year under
an acting appointment, they receive warrants that secure the
permanency of their office.  Ten years after appointment,
boatswains, gunners, carpenters and sailmakers are eligible
for examination for a commission as chief-boatswain,
&c., and as such they rank with, but next after, ensigns.
Mates are rated by the secretary from seamen or ordinary
seamen.  They have no relative rank, but take precedence
of all petty officers.  Their duties approximate to those
of boatswains, though they seldom serve on large cruising
vessels.  Clerks to pay officers are appointed by the
secretary on the nominations of the pay officers.  They have
no rank and are not promoted or retired.  Their appointments
are revoked when their services are no longer needed.

Boys between fifteen and seventeen years old of good character,
who can read and write and pass the physical examination, may
enlist for the term of their minority.  They enlist as third-
class apprentices, and are given six months' instruction at a
training station, and thence go to sea in apprentice training
vessels.  When proficient they are transferred to regular
cruising vessels as second class, and when further qualified
are rated first class.  All other enlistments are for four
years.  Recruits must speak English.  Landsmen are usually
sent to sea on special training-ships until proficient,
and are then sent into general service.  Raw recruits may
enlist as landsmen, or coal-passers or mess attendants.
Ordinary seamen must have served two years, and seamen four
years before the mast, prior to first enlistment as such;
and before enlistment in any other rating allowed on first
enlistment, applicants must prove their ability to hold such
rating.  Landsmen, coal-passers, &c., as soon as they become
proficient, are advanced to higher grades, and, if American
citizens, may eventually become petty officers (ranking with
army non-commissioned officers), with acting appointments.
In twelve months, or as soon thereafter as proficiency is
established, the acting appointment is made permanent, and an
acting appointment for the next higher grade is issued, &c.
Permanent appointments are not revokable except by sentence of
court-martial, and a man re-enlists in that rating for which
he held a permanent appointment in his previous enlistment.
All persons re-enlisting within four months after expiration
of previous enlistment are entitled to a bounty equal to four
months' pay, and in addition receive a ``continuous service
certificate,'' which entitles them to higher pay and to other
special considerations.  The same is true for each re-enlistment.
When an enlisted man completes thirty years' service and is
over fifty years of age he may retire on three-fourths pay.

The Marine corps (see MARINES) is a wholly separate military
body, but it is under the control of the Navy Department.

United States naval vessels are, as a rule, built at
private yards under contracts awarded after competition.
The government is not committed to any fixed policy or
building programme.  Each year the secretary recommends
certain new construction.  The final action rests with
Congress, which must appropriate money for the new ships
before the construction can be commenced.  Repairing and
reconstruction are usually done at government navy yards.

Ships in commission are distributed among five stations: (1)
the North Atlantic, i.e. the Atlantic coast of the United
States, Central America, and South America as far as the
Amazon, also the West Indies; (2) the South Atlantic, i.e.
the remainder of the Atlantic coast of South America and both
coasts of South Africa; (3) the European, comprising the coast
of Europe, including the inland seas, and the North Atlantic
coast of Africa; (4) the Asiatic station, comprising the
coast of Asia, including the islands north of the equator,
also the east coast of North Africa; (5) the Pacific station,
comprising the Pacific coast of North and South America,
and Australia and the adjacent islands lying south of the
equator.  Each station is commanded by a flag officer, and
the number of ships under the command varies according to
circumstances.  Ships in commission on special service,
such as training, gunnery, surveying ships, &c., are not
attached to stations.  The shore stations of the navy
are enumerated in the article on DOCKYARDS. (W. T. S.)

ADMIRALTY, HIGH COURT OF. The High Court of Admiralty of
England was the court of the deputy or lieutenant of the
admiral.  It is supposed in the Black Book of the Admiralty
to have been founded in the reign of Edward I.; but it would
appear, from the learned discussion of R. G. Marsden, that
it was established as a civil court by Edward III. in the
year 1360; the power of the admiral to determine matters of
discipline in the fleet, and possibly questions of piracy and
prize, being somewhat earlier.  Even then the court as such
took no formal shape; but the various admirals began to receive
in their patents express grants of jurisdiction with powers to
appoint lieutenants or deputies.  At first there were separate
admirals or rear-admirals of the north, south and west, each
with deputies and courts.  A list of them was collected by Sir H.
Spelman.  These were merged in or absorbed by one high court
early in the 15th century.  Sir Thomas Beaufort, afterwards
earl of Dorset and duke of Exeter (appointed admiral of the
fleet 1407, and admiral of England, Ireland and Aquitaine 1412,
which latter office he held till his death in 1426), certainly
had a court, with a marshal and other officers, and forms of
legal process--mandates, warrants, citations, compulsories,
proxies, &c. Complaints of encroachment of jurisdiction by the
Admiralty Courts led to the restraining acts, 13 Ric. II. c. 5
(1389), 15 Ric. II. c. 3 (1391) and 2 Hen. IV. c. 11 (1400).

Jurisdiction.

The original object of the institution of the courts or court
seems to have been to prevent or punish piracy and other
crimes upon the narrow seas and to deal with questions of
prize; but civil jurisdiction soon followed.  The jurisdiction
in criminal matters was transferred by the Offences at Sea
Act 1536 to the admiral or his deputy and three or four
other substantial persons appointed by the lord chancellor,
who were to proceed according to the course of the common
law.  By the Central Criminal Court Act 1834, cognizance of
crimes committed within the jurisdiction of the admiralty
was given to the central criminal court.  By an act of
1844 it has been also given to the justices of assize;
and crimes done within the jurisdiction of the admiralty
are now tried as crimes committed within the body of a
county.  See also the Criminal Law Consolidation Acts of 1861.

From the time of Henry IV. the only legislation affecting
the civil jurisdiction of the High Court of Admiralty till
the time of Queen Victoria is to be found in an act of 1540,
enabling the admiral or his lieutenant to decide on certain
complaints of freighters against shipmasters for delay in
sailing, and one of 1562, giving the lord high admiral of
England, the lord warden of the Cinque Ports, their lieutenants
and judges, co-ordinate power with other judges to enforce
forfeitures under that act--a very curious and miscellaneous
statute called ``An Act for the Maintenance of the Navy.''

In an act of 1534, with regard to ecclesiastical appeals from
the courts of the archbishops to the crown, it is provided
that the appeal shall be to the king in Chancery, ``and
that upon every such appeal a commission shall be directed
under the great seal to such persons as shall be named by
the king's highness, his heirs or successors, like as in
cases of appeal from the Admiralty Court.'' The appeal to
these ``persons,'' called delegates, continued until it was
transferred first to the privy council and then to the judicial
committee of the privy council by acts of 1832 and 1833.

The early jurisdiction of the court appears to have been
exercised very much under the same procedure as that
used by the courts of common law.  Juries are mentioned,
sometimes of the county and sometimes of the county and
merchants.  But the connexion with foreign parts led to the
gradual introduction of a procedure resembling that coming
into use on the continent and based on the Roman civil
law.  The Offences at Sea Act 1536 states the objection to
this application of the civil law to the trial of criminal
cases with much force: ``After the course of the civil laws,
the nature whereof is that before any judgment of death can be
given against the offenders, either they must plainly confess
their offences (which they will never do without torture or
pain), or else their offences be so plainly and directly
proved by witness indifferent such as saw their offences
committed, which cannot be gotten but by chance at few times.''

Restraining Acts.

The material enactments of the restraining statutes were as
follows:--An act of 1389 (13 Ric. II. c. 5) provided that ``the
admirals and their deputies shall not meddle from henceforth
of anything done within the realm, but only of a thing done
upon the sea, as it hath been used in the time of the noble
prince king Edward, grandfather of our lord the king that now
is.'' The act of 1391 (15 Ric. II. c. 3) provided that ``of
all manner of contracts, pleas and quarrels, and other things
rising within the bodies of the counties as well by land as by
water, and also of wreck of the sea, the admiral's court shall
have no manner of cognizance, power, nor jurisdiction; but all
such manner of contracts, pleas and quarrels, and all other
things rising within the bodies of counties, as well by land
as by water, as afore, and also wreck of the sea, shall be
tried, determined, discussed and remedied by the laws of the
land, and not before nor by the admiral, nor his lieutenant in
anywise.  Nevertheless, of the death of a man, and of a
maihem done in great ships, being and hovering in the main
stream of great rivers, only beneath the [bridges] of the
same rivers [nigh] to the sea, and in none other places of
the same rivers, the admiral shall have cognizance, and also
to arrest ships in the great flotes for the great voyages
of the king and of the realm; saving always to the king all
manner of forfeitures and profits thereof coming; and he shall
have also jurisdiction upon the said flotes, during the said
voyages only; saving always to the lords, cities, and boroughs,
their liberties and franchises.'' The act of 1400 (2 Hen.
IV. c. 11) adds nothing by way of definition or restriction,
but merely gives additional remedies against encroachments,
providing heavy fines for those who improperly sue in the
court, and those officials of the court who improperly assert
jurisdiction.  It was repealed by the Admiralty Court Act
1861.  The statutes of Richard, except the enabling part of the
second, were repealed by the Civil Procedure Acts Repeal Act 1879.
The formation of a High Court of Justice rendered them obsolete.

In the reign of James I. the chronic controversies between
the courts of common law and the Admiralty Court as to the
limits of their respective jurisdictions reached an acute
stage.  We find the records of it in the second volume of
Marsden's Select Pleas in the Court of Admiralty, and in
Lord Coke's writings: Reports, part xiii. 51; Institutes,
part iv. chap. 22. In this latter passage Lord Coke records
how, notwithstanding an agreement asserted to have been made
in 1575 between the justices of the King's Bench and the
judge of the admiralty, the judges of the common law courts
successfully maintained their right to prohibit suits in
admiralty upon contracts made on shore, or within havens, or
creeks, or tidal rivers, if the waters were within the body
of any county, wheresoever such contracts were broken, for
torts committed within the body of a county, whether on land
or water, and for contracts made in parts beyond the seas.
It is due to the memory of the judges of Lord Coke's time to
say that, at any rate as regards contracts made in partibus
transmarinis, the same rule appears to have been applied at
least as early as 1544, the judges then holding that ``for
actions transitory abroad action may lie at common law.''

Judge's patent.

All the while, however, the patents of the admiralty
judge purported to confer on him a far ampler jurisdiction
than the jealousy of the other courts would concede to
him.  The patent of the last judge of the court, Sir Robert
Joseph Phillimore, dated the 23rd of August 1867, styles him
``Lieut.  Off. Princ. and Commissary Gen. and Special in
our High Court of Admiralty of Eng. and President and Judge
of the same,'' and gives to him power to take cognizance
of ``all causes, civil and maritime, also all contracts,
complaints, offences or suspected offences, crimes, pleas,
debts, exchanges, accounts, policies of assurance, loading of
ships, and all other matters and contracts which relate to
freight due for the use of ships, transportation, money or
bottomry; also all suits civil and maritime between merchants
or between proprietors of ships and other vessels for matters
in, upon, or by the sea, or public streams, or fresh-water
ports, rivers, nooks and places overflown whatsoever within
the ebbing and flowing of the sea and high-water mark, or
upon any of the shores or banks adjacent from any of the
first bridges towards the sea through England and Ireland
and the dominions thereof, or elsewhere beyond the seas.''
Power is also given to hear appeals from vice-admirals; also
``to arrest . . . according to the civil laws and ancient
customs of our high court . . . all ships, persons, things,
goods, wares and merchandise''; also ``to enquire by the
oaths of honest and lawful men . . . of all . . . things
which . . . ought to be enquired after, and to mulct, arrest,
punish, chastise and reform''; also ``to preserve the public
streams of our admiralty as well for the preservation of our
royal navy, and of the fleets and vessels of our kingdom .
. . as of whatsoever fishes increasing in the rivers''; also
``to reform nets too straight and other unlawful engines and
instruments whatsoever for the catching of fishes''; also to
take cognizance ``of the wreck of the sea . . . and of the
death, drowning and view of dead bodies,'' and the conservation
of the statutes concerning wreck of the sea and the office
of coroner [1276], and concerning pillages [1353], and ``the
cognizance of mayhem'' within the ebb and flow of the tide;
all in as ample manner and form as they were enjoyed by Dr
David Lewis [judge from 1558 to 1584], Sir Julius Caesar,
and the other judges in order (22 in all) before Sir Robert
Phillimore.  This form of patent differs in but few respects
from the earlier Latin patents --tempore Henry VIII.--except
that they have a clause non obstantibus statutis.

Modern progress.

As has been said, however, the contention of the common
law judges prevailed, and the Admiralty Court (except for
a temporary revival under Cromwell) sank into comparative
insignificance during the 17th century.  The great maritime
wars of the 18th century gave scope to the exercise of its
prize jurisdiction; and its international importance as a
prize court in the latter half of the 18th and the first
part of the 19th centuries is a matter of common historical
knowledge.  There were upwards of 1000 prize causes each
year between 1803 and 1811, in some years upwards of 2000.

There were other great judges; but Sir William Scott, afterwards
Lord Stowell, is the most famous.  Before his time there were
no reports of admiralty cases, except Hay and Marriott's prize
decisions.  But from his time onwards there has been a continuous
stream of admiralty reports, and we begin to find important
cases decided on the instance as well as on the prize side.

In the reign of Queen Victoria, two enabling statutes, 1840 and
1861, were passed and greatly enlarged the jurisdiction of the
court.  The manner in which these statutes were administered
by Dr Stephen Lushington and Sir R. J. Phillimore, whose
tenure of office covered the whole period of the queen's reign
till the creation of the High Court of Justice, the valuable
assistance rendered by the nautical assessors from the Trinity
House, the great increase of shipping, especially of steam
shipping, and the number and gravity of cases of collision,
salvage and damage to cargo, restored the activity of the
court and made it one of the most important tribunals of the
country.  In 1875, by the operation of the Judicature Acts
of 1873 and 1875, the High Court of Admiralty was with the
other great courts of England formed into the High Court of
Justice.  The principal officers of the court in subordination
to the judge were the registrar (an office which always points
to a connexion with canon or civil law), and the marshal, who
acted as the maritime sheriff, having for his baton of office
a silver oar.  The assistance of the Trinity Masters, which
has been already mentioned, was provided for in the charter of
incorporation of the Trinity House.  These officers and their
assistance have been preserved in the High Court of Justice.

Practitioners in the court.

Till the year 1859 the practitioners in the High Court
of Admiralty were the same as those in the ecclesiastical
courts and distinct from those who practised in the ordinary
courts.  Advocates took the place of barristers, and proctors of
solicitors.  The place of the attorney-general was taken
by the king's or queen's advocate-general, and that of the
treasury solicitor by the king's or queen's procurator or
proctor.  There were also an admiralty advocate and an admiralty
proctor.  The king's advocate also represented the crown in
the ecclesiastical courts, and was its standing adviser in
matters of international and foreign law.  The king's advocate
led the bar of his courts, and before the privy council took
precedence of the attorney-general.  The admiralty advocate
or advocate to his majesty in his office of admiralty
represented specially the lords of the admiralty.  In the
Admiralty Court he ranked next after the king's advocate.

In an act of 1859 the practice was thrown open
to barristers and to attorneys and solicitors.

Upon the next vacancy after the courts were thrown open, the
crown altered the precedence and placed the queen's advocate
after the attorney- and solicitor-general.  There were two
holders of the office under these conditions, Sir R. J.
Phillimore and Sir Travers Twiss.  The office was not filled
up after the resignation of the latter.  The admiralty had,
when the courts were thrown open, a standing counsel for the
ordinary courts and a solicitor.  Questions soon arose as to
the respective claims of the admiralty advocate and the counsel
to the admiralty, and their acuteness was increased when the
courts were fused into one High Court of Justice.  Upon the
resignation of Sir James Parker Deane the office of admiralty
advocate was not filled up.  In like manner the proctor to the
admiralty has disappeared.  The office of king's or queen's
proctor has been kept alive but amalgamated with that of the
solicitor for the treasury.  That officer uses the title of
king's proctor when he appears in certain matrimonial causes.

The last holder of the office of standing counsel to the
admiralty was Alexander Staveley Hill, K.C.,M.P.  Since his
death the office, like those of the king's or queen's advocate
and the admiralty advocate, has not been filled up; and the
ordinary law officers of the crown with the assistance of a
junior counsel to the admiralty (a barrister appointed by the
attorney-general) perform the duties of all these offices.

Judge advocate of the Fleet.

The judge advocate of the fleet is a practising barrister
whose function it is to advise the admiralty on all matters
connected with courts-martial.  Though section 61 of the
Naval Discipline Act 1866 recognizes the possibility of his
presence at a court-martial, he does not nowadays attend,
but is represented by his deputy or by an officiating deputy
judge advocate appointed ad hoc by the admiralty, the
commander-in-chief of the fleet or squadron who convenes
the court-martial, or, if no such appointment is made,
by the president of the court-martial.  But though the
judge advocate of the fleet does not actually attend the
courts-martial very responsible duties are imposed upon
him.  By a minute of the Board passed in 1884 (which is still
in force) all proceedings of courts-martial on officers and
men of the royal navy, excepting those where the prisoner
pleads guilty and no evidence is taken, are to be referred to
him, with a view to the consideration of (a) the charge,
(b) the evidence on which the finding is based, and (c)
the legality of the sentence, and he writes a minute on each
case for the information of the lords commissioners of the
admiralty with regard to these points.  He has no power to
modify a sentence, a power which is reserved to the admiralty
by sec.  53 (1) of the Naval Discipline Act 1866, except in the
case of a death sentence, which can only be remitted by the
crown.  All cases where the prisoner has pleaded guilty are
examined in the admiralty, and if in any case there is any
reason to think that there has been any informality or that
the prisoner has not understood the effect of his plea, such
case is submitted to the judge advocate of the fleet for his
opinion.  The judge advocate of the fleet receives no
fees but is remunerated by a salary of L. 500 per annum.

The existence of a deputy judge of the fleet appointed by
the admiralty has been recognized by the king's regulations,
but no such officer had been appointed up to 1908.

In accordance with the provisions of sec.  61 of the Naval Discipline
Act 1866, in the absence of the judge advocate of the fleet and
his deputy, an officiating judge advocate is appointed for each
court-martial.  His duties are described in detail by the king's
regulations, but may be summed up as consisting of seeing that
the charges are in order, pointing out any informalities or
defects in the charges or in the constitution of the court,
seeing that any witness required by prosecutor or prisoner is
summoned, keeping the minutes of the proceedings, advising
on matters of law which arise at any time after the warrant
for the court-martial is issued, drawing up the findings and
sentence, and forwarding the minutes when completed to the
admiralty.  The officiating judge advocate is usually the
secretary of the flag-officer convening the court-martial or
some other officer of the accountancy branch.  He is remunerated
for his services by a fixed fee for each day the court sits.

Ireland. --The High Court of Admiralty of Ireland, being
formed on the same pattern as the High Court in England, sat in
the Four Courts, Dublin, having a judge, a registrar, a marshal
and a king's or queen's advocate.  In peace time and war time
alike it exercised only an instance jurisdiction, though in
1793 it claimed to exercise prize jurisdiction (see ADMIRALTY
JURISDICTION.) No prize commission ever issued to it.  By the
Irish Judicature Act of 1877 it was directed that it should
be amalgamated with the Irish High Court of Justice upon the
next vacancy in the office of judge, and this subsequently took
place.  There was no separate lord high admiral for Ireland.

Scotland.--At the Union, while the national functions of
the lord high admiral were merged in the English office it was
provided by the Act of Union that the Court of Admiralty in
Scotland should be continued ``for determination of all maritime
cases relating to private rights in Scotland competent to the
jurisdiction of the Admiralty Court.'' This court continued till
1831, when its civil jurisdiction was given to the Court of
Session and the Sheriffs' Courts (see ADMIRALTY JURISDICTION),

See Sir Travers Twiss, Black Book of the Admiralty,
Rolls series; R. G. Marsden, Select Pleas in the Court of
Admiralty, published by the Selden Society; Godolphin,
View of the Admiral Jurisdiction. (W. G. F. P.)

1 The Board of Ordnance was originally instituted for the
navy, but eventually fell into military hands, to the detriment
of the navy --the only navy of any nation that has not full
authority over its own ordnance.  In 1653, according to
Oppenheim, it was, owing to its inefficiency, placed under the
admiralty.  In 1632 it appears to have been independent,
but ``still retained that evil pre-eminence in sloth and
incapacity it had already earned and has never since lost.''

2 Admiral Sir Cooper Key, when director of naval ordnance
during Mr Childers' administration, observed to the writer
that no first lord of the admiralty knew so little of
the working of the admiralty as Mr Childers, because,
owing to the discontinuance of board meetings, he lost
the great advantage of hearing the discussion. (R. V. H.)

3 The drawback is, that a naval lord can only go on leave by
throwing all his work on a colleague already overweighted with work.

ADMIRALTY ISLANDS, a group of about forty islands lying north
of New Guinea, between 1 deg.  and 3 deg.  S., and 146 deg.  and 148 deg.
E., within the Bismarck Archipelago, belonging to Germany.
The largest, Manus, is about 60 m. in length, and its highest
point is about 3000 ft. above the sea; the others are very
small, and rise little above sea-level.  Most are of coral
formation, but the hills of Manus are believed to be extinct
volcanoes.  The islands were discovered by the Dutch in 1616,
and visited in 1767 by Philip Carteret; but no landing seems
to have been effected, owing to the surrounding reefs, until
the arrival of the ``Challenger'' in 1875.  The natives are
of the Papuan type, but show signs of mixed origin.  They
are cannibals, and many murders of whites have taken place.

ADMIRALTY JURISDICTION. The courts by which, as far as we
know, admiralty jurisdiction in civil matters was first
exercised were the following.  In and throughout England the
courts of the several admirals soon combined into one High
Court of Admiralty (see ADMIRALTY, HIGH COURT OF.) Within
the territories of the Cinque Ports the Court of Admiralty
of the Cinque Ports exercised a co-ordinate jurisdiction.
In certain towns and places there were local courts of
vice-admiralty.  In Scotland there existed the Scottish
High Court of Admiralty, in Ireland the Irish High Court of
Admiralty.  Of these courts that of the Cinque Ports alone
remains untouched.  The Scottish court was abolished, and
its civil jurisdiction given to the Court of Session and
to the courts of the sheriffs by the Court of Session Act
1830--not, however, till a decision given by it and the appeal
therefrom to the House of Lords had established a remarkable
rule of admiralty law in cases of collision (Hay v. le
Neve, 1824, 2 Shaw, Sc. App. Cas. 395).  The act states
that the Court of Justiciary held cumulative jurisdiction
with the Court of Admiralty in criminal matters.  The local
vice-admiralty courts in England had ceased to do much work
when they were abolished by the Municipal Corporations Act
1835; the High Court became, with the other superior courts,
a component part of the High Court of Justice by virtue of
the Judicature Acts 1873 and 1875.  And the Irish court has
in like manner become a part of the High Court of Justice
in Ireland by virtue of the Judicature Act passed in 1877.

Vice-Admiralty Courts.

As England first, and Great Britain afterwards, acquired
colonies and possessions beyond seas, vice-admiralty courts
were established.  The earliest known was that in Jamaica,
established in the year 1662.  Some vice- admiralty courts
which were created for prize purposes in the last century were
suffered to expire after 1815.  In the year 1863, when the
act regulating the vice-admiralty courts was passed, there
were vice-admiralty courts at Antigua, Bahamas, Barbadoes,
Bermuda, British Columbia, British Guiana, British Honduras,
Cape of Good Hope, Ceylon, Dominica, Falkland Islands,
Gambia River, Gibraltar, Gold Coast, Grenada, Hong Kong,
Jamaica, Labuan, Lagos, Lower Canada (otherwise Quebec),
Malta, Mauritius, Montserrat, Natal, Nevis, New Brunswick,
Newfoundland, New South Wales, New Zealand, Nova Scotia
(otherwise Halifax), Prince Edward Island, Queensland, St
Christopher, St Helena, St Lucia, St Vincent, Sierra Leone,
South Australia, Tasmania, Tobago, Trinidad, Vancouver's
Island, Victoria, Virgin Islands (otherwise Tortola), and
Western Australia, and (for matters of the slave trade only)
Aden.  By the act of 1867 one for the Straits Settlements was
added.  These courts have been regulated from time to time
by the following statutes: 2 and 3 Will.  IV. c. 51, 26 and
27 Vict. c. 24 (Vice-Admiralty Courts Act 1863), already
cited, and 30 and 31 Vict. c. 45 (Vice-Admiralty Courts
Act Amendment Act 1867); and by the slave trade acts, of
which the last and consolidating act was that of 1873.

In 1890 the Colonial Courts of Admiralty Act provided that,
except in the colonies of New South Wales, Victoria, St
Helena and British Honduras, vice-admiralty courts should be
abolished, and a substitution made of colonial courts of
admiralty.  There is power, however, reserved to the crown
to erect through the admiralty in any British possession any
vice-admiralty court, except in India or any British possession
having a representative legislature.  No vice-admiralty
court so established can exercise any jurisdiction except
for some purpose relating to prize, the royal navy, the slave
trade, foreign enlistment, Pacific Islanders' protection, and
questions relating to treaties or conventions on international
law.  Vice-admiralty courts exercised all usual admiralty
jurisdiction, and in addition a certain revenue jurisdiction,
and jurisdiction over matters of slave trade and prize and
under the Pacific Islanders' Protection Act. The appeal from
vice-admiralty courts used to lie to the High Court of Admiralty
of England, but has been transferred to the king in council.

Colonial Courts of Admiralty.

By the Colonial Courts of Admiralty Act 1890, already
referred to, every court of law in a British possession
which is declared by its legislature to be such, or if
there be no such declaration, which has original unlimited
civil jurisdiction, shall be a court of admiralty.

India.

There used at one time to be vice-admiralty courts for Calcutta,
Madras and Bombay; but by the India High Courts Act 1861, sec.  9, the
admiralty jurisdiction is given to the High Courts of these places.

Consular Courts.

Consular courts established in Turkey, China and Japan have
had admiralty jurisdiction given to them, and by sec.  12 of
the Colonial Admiralty Courts Act any court established by
H.M. for the exercise of jurisdiction in any place outside
H.M.'s dominion may have admiralty jurisdiction granted to it.

Australia.

By the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act 1900
a federal supreme court, to be called the High Court of
Australia, is created, and the parliament of the Commonwealth
may make laws conferring original jurisdiction on the High
Court in matters of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,

The Isle of Man.

There is a court of admiralty in the Isle of Man of which
the water-bailiff is judae.  He is also styled admiral.
It is said to have jurisdiction in salvage and over other
maritime matters occurring within 3 leagues from the shore.

County Local Courts.

Modern statutes have given admiralty jurisdiction to the City
of London Court, the Court of Passage and to the county courts
in the following matters: Salvage, where the value of the
salved property does not exceed L. 1000, or the claim for reward
L. 300; towage, necessaries and wages, where the claim does
not exceed L. 150; claims for damage to cargo, or by collision,
up to L. 300 (and for sums above these prescribed limits by
agreement between the parties); and claims arising out of
breaches of charter parties and other contracts for carriage
of goods in foreign ships, or torts in respect thereof, up to
L. 300.  This jurisdiction is restricted to subjects over which
jurisdiction was possessed by the High Court of Admiralty at
the time when the first of these acts was passed, except as
regards the last branch of it (the ``Aline,'' 1880, 5 Ex.
Div. 227; R. v. Judge of City of London Court, 1892, 1 Q.B.
272).  In analogy with the county court admiralty jurisdiction
created in England, a limited admiralty jurisdiction has
been given in Ireland to the recorders of certain boroughs
and the chairmen of certain quarter sessions; and in salvage
cases, where a county court in England would have jurisdiction,
magistrates, recorders and chairmen of quarter sessions may
have jurisdiction as official arbitrators (Merchant Shipping
Act 1894, sec.  547).  In Scotland, admiralty suits in cases
not exceeding the value of L. 25 are exclusively tried in the
sheriff's court; while over that limit the sheriff's court
and the Court of Session have concurrent jurisdiction.  The
sheriff has also criminal admiralty jurisdiction, but only
as to crimes which he would be competent to try if committed
on land (The Court of Session Act 1830, sec. sec.  21 and 22).

By an act of 1821 an arbitral jurisdiction in cases of salvage
was given to certain commissioners of the Cinque Ports.

Appeals.

The appeal from county courts and commissioners is to the
High Court of Justice, and is exercised by a divisional court
of the Probate, Divorce and Admiralty Division.  In cases
arising within the Cinque Ports there is an optional appeal
to the Admiralty Court of the Cinque Ports.  The appeal from
the High Court of Justice is in ordinary admiralty matters,
as in others, to the Court of Appeal, and from thence to
the House of Lords.  But it is specially provided by the
Judicature Act 1891, as it was by the Prize Act 1864, that the
appeal in prize cases shall be to the sovereign in council.

The unfortunate provisions of the legislature, giving to
the jurisdiction of county courts different money limits in
admiralty equity and common law cases, make the distinction
between cases coming under the admiralty jurisdiction and other
civil cases of practical moment in those courts.  Arguments
full of learning and research have been addressed to the
courts, and weighty decisions have been given, upon questions
which would never have arisen if the county courts had not a
larger money area of jurisdiction in admiralty cases than they
have in in other matters (R. v. Judge of City of London
Court, 1892, 1 Q.B. 273; the ``Zeta,'' 1893, App. Cas.
468).  But as regards the high courts, whether in England,
Scotland or Ireland, it is not now necessary to distinguish
their civil admiralty jurisdiction from their ordinary civil
jurisdiction, except for the purpose of seeing whether there
can or cannot be process in rem. Not that every admiralty
action can of right be brought in rem, but that no process
in rem lies at the suit of a subject unless it be for a matter
of admiralty jurisdiction--one, for instance, that could in
England have been tried in the High Court of Admiralty.  Now
these matters of admiralty jurisdiction with process in rem
range themselves under four primary and four supplementary
heads.  The four primary are damage, salvage, bottomry,
wages; and the four supplementary are extensions due to one
or other of the statutes of 1840 (Admiralty Court) and 1861
(Admiralty Court Act).  They are damage to cargo carried in a
ship, necessaries supplied to a ship, mortgage of ship, and
master's claim for wages and disbursements on account of a
ship.  In all these cases, primary and secondary, the process
of which a plaintiff can avail himself for redress, may be
either in personam as in other civil suits, or by arrest
of the ship, and, in cases of salvage and bottomry, the
cargo.  Whenever, also, the ship can be arrested, any freight
due can also be attached, by arrest of the cargo to the extent
only of the freight which it has to pay.  For the purpose of
ascertaining whether or not process in rem would lie, there
have been distinctions as nice, and the line of admiralty
jurisdiction has been drawn as carefully, as in the cases of the
admiralty jurisdiction of the county courts (the ``Theta,''
1894, Prob. 280; the ``Gas Float Whitton,'' 1897, App. Cas.
337).  There have been similar questions raised in the United
States, from De Lovio v. Boit (1815, 2 Gallison, 398),
and Ramsay v. Allegre (1827, 12 Wheaton, 611), down to
the quite modern cases which will be found quoted in the
arguments and judgments in the ``Gas Float Whitton.''

Disciplinary.

The disciplinary jurisdiction at one time exercised by
the Admiralty Court, over both the royal navy and merchant
vessels, may be said to be obsolete in time of peace, the
last remnant of it being suits against merchantmen for
flying flags appropriate to men-of-war (the ``Minerva,''
1800, 3 C. Rob. 34), a matter now more effectively provided
against by the Merchant Shipping Act 1894.  In time of war,
however, it was exercised in some instances as long as the
Admiralty Court lasted, and is now in consequence exercisable
by the High Court of Justice (see Prize below).  It
was, perhaps, in consequence of its ancient disciplinary
jurisdiction that the Admiralty Court was made the court to
enforce certain portions of the Foreign Enlistment Act 1870.

Finally, appeals from decisions of courts of inquiry, under the
Merchant Shipping Act, cancelling or suspending the certificates
of officers in the merchant service, may be made to the Probate,
Divorce and Admiralty Division of the High Court of Justice.

Criminal cases.

The admiralty jurisdiction in criminal matters extends over
all crimes committed on board British ships at sea or in
tidal waters, even though such tidal waters be well within
foreign territory (R. v. Anderson, 1868, L.R. 1 C.C.R.
161), but not over crimes committed on board foreign vessels
upon the high seas (R. v. Serva, 1845, 1 Denison C.C.
104).  Whether it extended over crimes committed on foreign
ships within territorial waters of the United Kingdom, and
whether a zone of three miles round the shores of the United
Kingdom was for such purpose territorial water, were the
great questions raised in R. v. Keyn (the ``Franconia,''
L.R. 2 Ex. Div. 126), and decided in the negative by the
majority of the judges, rightly, as the writer of this
article respectfully thinks.  Since then, however, the
legislature has brought these waters within the jurisdiction
of the admiralty by the Territorial Waters Jurisdiction Act
1878.  Section 2 runs as follows: ``An offence committed
by a person, whether he is or is not a British subject,
on the open sea within the territorial waters of British
dominions, is an offence within the jurisdiction of the
admiral, although it may have been committed on board or by
means of a foreign ship, and the person who committed such
offence may be arrested, tried and punished accordingly.''
By sec.  7 the ``jurisdiction of the admiral'' is defined as
``including the jurisdiction of the admiralty of England or
Ireland, or either of such jurisdictions as used in any act
of parliament; and for the purpose or arresting any person
charged with an offence declared by this act to be within the
jurisdiction of the admiral, the territorial waters adjacent
to the United Kingdom, or any other part of her majesty's
dominions, shall be deemed to be within the jurisdiction of any
judge, magistrate or officer.'' And ``territorial waters of
her majesty's dominions'' are defined as ``in reference to the
sea, meaning such part of the sea adjacent to the coast of
the United Kingdom, or the coast of some other part of her
majesty's dominions, as is deemed by international law to be
within the territorial sovereignty of her majesty; and for
the purpose of any offence declared by this act to be within
the jurisdiction of the admiral, any part of the open sea
within one marine league of the coast, measured from low-water
mark, shall be deemed to be open sea within the territorial
waters of her majesty's dominions.'' As to those portions of
the sea and tidal waters which, by reason of their partially
land-locked positions, are deemed to be in the body of a
county, there is not admiralty jurisdiction, but crimes are
tried as if they were committed on land within the same county.

Pirates, whatever flag they pretended to fly, were, from
1360 onwards, wherever their crimes were committed, subject
to the admiralty jurisdiction.  The criminal jurisdiction
of the admiralty was first exercised by the High Court of
Admiralty; and then, by virtue of the Offences at Sea Act 1536,
transferred to commissioners appointed under the great seal,
among whom were to be the admiral or admirals, his or their
deputies.  Admiralty sessions were held for this purpose till
1834.  Admiralty criminal jurisdiction is now, by virtue
of the series of statutes, the Offences at Sea Act 1799,
the Central Criminal Court Act 1834, Offences at Sea Act
1844, and the criminal law consolidation acts passed in
1861, exercised by the Central Criminal Court and by the
ordinary courts of assize.  Special provision for trial
in the colonies of offences committed at sea has been made
by an act of William III. (1698-1699), the Offences at Sea
Act 1806, and the Admiralty Offences (Colonial) Act 1849.

Prize.

The Admiralty Court had jurisdiction in matters of prize from
very early times; and although since the middle of the 17th
century the instance, or ordinary civil jurisdiction of the
court, has been kept distinct from the prize jurisdiction,
they were originally both administered and regarded as
being within the ordinary jurisdiction of the lord high
admiral.  The early records of the admiralty show that the
origin of the prize jurisdiction is to be traced to the power
given to the court of the admiral to try cases of piracy
and ``spoil,'' i.e. captures of foreign ships by English
ships.  The earliest recorded case of spoil tried before the
admiral is in 1357, when the goods of a Portuguese subject,
taken at sea by Englishmen from a French ship which had
previously spoiled a Portuguese, were awarded by the admiral as
good prize to the English captors; and Edward III. in a letter
to the king of Portugal answering a complaint on the subject
gives the admiral's decision as a reason for refusing their
restoration.  During the 16th century a very large part of
the business of the Admiralty Court related to spoil and
piracy, and the privy council often directed the judge of the
court how to deal with the spoil cases, with regard to which
foreigners who had suffered from attacks by English ships
made petition for redress to the admiral or the council.
The spoil suit at this time (causa spolii) was a civil
proceeding resulting in a decree absolutoria, dismissing
the defendant, or condemnatoria, ordering restoration
to be made by him.  In 1585 the patent of Howard, the lord
high admiral, authorized him to issue letters of reprisal
against Spain; and an order in council regulating the conduct
of those to whom such letters were issued provided by an
additional article (1859) that all prizes were to be brought
in without breaking of bulk for adjudication by the Admiralty
Court.  The court was also resorted to at this time by
captors, sailing under commissions granted by the allies of
England, such as the king of France and the Dutch.  About
the middle of the 17th century separate sittings of the court
for instance and prize business began, perhaps because of
the conflicting claims to droits of Charles II. and the
duke of York as lord high admiral; and privateering under
royal commission took the place of the former irregular
``spoiling.'' The account which Lord Mansfield gave of the
records of the Admiralty Court, that there were no prize
act books earlier than 1641, or prize sentences earlier than
1648, and that before 1690 the records were in confusion, must
be qualified by the correction that there are in existence
prize sentences (on paper, not parchment) as early as 1589.

Although the courts of common law hardly ever seem to have
interfered with or disputed the admiralty prize jurisdiction,
its exclusive nature was not finally admitted till 1782; but
long previously royal ordinances (1512, 1602) and statutes
(1661, giving an alternative of commissioners, 1670, 1706) had
given the Admiralty Court the only express jurisdiction over
prize.  The same statute of Anne and acts of 1739 and 1744 give
prize jurisdiction to any court of admiralty, and the courts
of admiralty for the colonies and plantations in North America.

It has been a disputed question whether the prize jurisdiction
of the court was inherent, i.e. coming within the powers
given by the general patent of the judge, in which no express
mention of it is made, or whether it required a special
commission.  Upon this subject the judgment of Lord Mansfield
in Lindo v. Rodney (1782, Dougl. 612), the judgment
of Mr Justice Story in De Lovio v. Boit (1815, 2
Gallison, 398), and Marsden's Select Pleas of the Court
of Admiralty (introduction), may be consulted.  But the
settled practice now and for a long time past has been
for a special commission and warrant to be issued for this
purpose.  In connexion with this it is observable that in
1793 the Admiralty Court of Ireland claimed to exercise
prize jurisdiction under its general patent; and it is said
to have been the opinion of Sir W. Wynne that the Admiralty
Court of Scotland had a similar right (Brown, Civil Law of
Admiralty, vol. ii. 211, 212).  Any jurisdiction of the
Scottish court over prize of war was transferred to the
English court by the Court of Session Act 1825, sec.  57. As
to the Irish court, by the Act of Union it was provided that
there should remain in Ireland an instance court of admiralty
for the determination of causes civil and maritime only.

In 1864 the constitution and procedure of prize courts,
which had until then been prescribed by occasional acts
passed for each war as it arose, were for the first time made
permanent by the Naval Prize Act, by which the High Court
of Admiralty and every admiralty or vice-admiralty court, or
any other court exercising admiralty jurisdiction in British
dominions, if for the time being authorized to exercise prize
jurisdiction, were made prize courts.  The High Court of
Admiralty was given jurisdiction throughout British dominions
as a prize court, and, as such, power to enforce any order
of a vice-admiralty prize court and the judicial committee
of the privy council in prize appeals-- this power mutatis
mutandis being also given to vice-admiralty prize courts.
An appeal was given from any prize court to the sovereign in
council.  Prize courts were given jurisdiction in cases of
captures made in a land expedition or an expedition made
conjointly with allied forces, and power to give prize salvage
on recaptured ships and prize bounty; and a form of procedure
was prescribed.  The High Court was also given exclusive
jurisdiction as a prize court over questions of ransom
and petitions of right in prize cases, and power to punish
masters of ships under convoy disobeying orders or deserting
convoy.  By the Naval Discipline Act 1866, power to award
damages to convoyed ships exposed to danger by the fault of
the officer in charge of the convoy was also given to the High
Court.  Under other statutes it had power to try questions
of booty of war when referred to it by the crown, in the
same way as prize causes, and claims of king's ships for
salvage on recaptures from pirates, which could be condemned
as droits of admiralty, subject to the owner's right to
receive them on paying one-eighth of the value, and also
power to seize and restore prizes captured by belligerents
in violation of British neutrality, or by a ship equipped in
British ports contrary to British obligations of neutrality.

All jurisdiction of the High Court of Admiralty has since
passed to the High Court of Justice, which is made a prize
court under the Naval Prize Act, with all the powers of the
Admiralty Court in that respect; and all prize causes and
matters within the jurisdiction of that court as a prize
court are assigned to the Probate, Divorce and Admiralty
Division; and an appeal from it as a prize court lies only
to the king in council (Judicature Acts 1873 and 1891).

By an act of 1894 further provision is made for the constitution
of prize courts in British possessions.  A commission, warrant
or instruction from the crown or the admiralty may be issued
at any time, even in peace; and upon such issue, subject to
instructions from the crown, the vice-admiral of the possessions
on being satisfied by information from a secretary of state
that war has broken out between Great Britain and a foreign
state, may make proclamation to that effect, and the commission
or warrant comes into effect.  The commission or warrant
may authorize a vice-admiralty court or colonial court of
admiralty to act as a prize court, or establish a vice-admiralty
court for that purpose, and may be revoked or altered at any
time.  The court is authorized to act as a prize court during
the war, and shall after its conclusion continue to act as
such, and finally dispose of all matters and things arising
during the war, including all penalties and forfeitures incurred
therein.  Rules of court may also be made by order in council
for regulating, subject to the Naval Prize Act, the procedure
and practice of prize courts under that act, the duties and
conduct of their officers and practitioners, and the fees
and costs therein (Prize Courts Act 1894, sec. sec. 2, 3). This
latter power has been exercised; and prize rules for the
High Court of Justice and the vice- admiralty prize courts
were framed in 1898 (Statutory Rules and Orders, 1898).

AUTHORITIES.--Marsden, Select Pleas of the Court of
Admiralty, Selden Society, London, 1892 and 1897; Zouch,
Jurisdiction of the Admiralty of England asserted; Robinson,
Collectanea Maritima; Brown, Admiralty; Edwardes, Admiralty;
Phillimore, International Law, vol. i., vol. iii. part xi.;
Pritchard, Admiralty Digest, tit.  Jurisdiction. (W. G. F. P.)

UNITED STATES The source of admiralty jurisdiction in
the United States is Article 3, sec.  2 of the United States
Constitution:--``The judicial power shall extend to all
cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.'' The United
States Supreme Court has declared that by virtue of these
words the admiralty jurisdiction extends not only to the
high seas but to the great lakes and the rivers connecting
them, and to all public navigable waters in the United
States (the ``Genesee Chief'' v. Fitz Hugh, 12 Howards
U.S. Rep. 443), including even interstate canals (Ex.
p.  Boyer, 109 U.S. Rep. 629, the ``Robert W. Parsons,''
[1903] 191 U.S. 17), and is not confined to tide waters.  The
American colonies had vice-admiralty courts with an admiralty
jurisdiction equal to the largest claimed by the English
admiralty courts even under Edward III. When they became
states they delegated to the federal government their several
``admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,'' using these words
in the sense understood in every country in Europe, England
excepted, and in the sense in which they had then been used
in the colonies for a long time, and without reference to
the very narrow jurisdiction of the English admiralty courts
then existing (Waring v. Clark, 5 Howards U.S. Rep. 441).

It is settled as to the United States admiralty jurisdiction
not that it is ``co-equal with that of the original English,
or that of continental European admiralty, but is rather that
defined by the statutes of Richard II., under the construction
given to them by contemporary or immediately subsequent courts
of admiralty'' (2 Parsons Adm. 176), and that it embraced all
maritime contracts, torts, injuries or offences (De Lovio v.
Boit, 2 Gallisons Rep. 398; Waring v. Clark, 5 Howards
U.S. Rep. 441), and that it has never been restricted by the
action of the common law courts as in England under Lord Coke (2
Parsons Adm. 166 n.; Waring v. Clark; De Lovio v. Bolt.)

Original admiralty jurisdiction was by the Judiciary Act of 1789
(U.S.  Rev. Stats. sec.  563) granted to the United States district
courts exclusively, except that concurrent original jurisdiction
was given to United States circuit courts over seizures for
slave trading, and condemnations of property used by persons
in insurrection (sec.  629; sec.  5309), and in the coolie trade
(sec.  2159), and by the act of the 3rd of March 1901; the supreme
court of the District of Columbia is given the same jurisdiction
as the district and circuit courts.  The Supreme Court of
the United States has no original jurisdiction in admiralty.
All suits are brought in the first instance in the district
court.  Appeals lie, both on the law and on the facts, from
a final decree of that court to the circuit court of appeals
only, except in cases involving the jurisdiction of the court,
the constitutionality of a law of any state or of the United
States, or the validity or construction of any treaty of the
United States, and except cases of prize and capital or infamous
crime, in which cases of appeal lies directly to the supreme
court.  In cases of gravity and importance the Supreme Court
may by certiorari review the judgment of the circuit court
of appeals, but such cases are rare (re Lau Ow Bew, 141
U.S. Rep 587; Benedict's The American Admiralty, sec.  607).
Formerly the Judiciary Act authorized an appeal from the
district court to the circuit court, and thence to the Supreme
Court.  But the act of the 3rd of March 1891 (Ch. 517)
abolished this and created the circuit court of appeals, making
it the final appellate court in admiralty, except as above
stated.  In any case where the district judge is unable to
perform his duties or is disqualified by reason of interest
or of relationship, or has acted as counsel for one of the
parties to the action, it may be removed to the circuit
court in that district (U.S.  Rev. Stats. sec. sec.  587, 589 and
601).  These are now the only cases in which admiralty suits
can come before the circuit court (Benedict's Adm. sec.  321).

The subject matter in cases of contract determines the
jurisdiction (the ``General Smith,'' 4 Wheaton U.S. Rep.
438), and not the presence or absence of tide, salt water,
current, nor that the water be an inland basin or land-locked,
or a river, nor by its being a harbour, or a port within
the body of the county, nor that a remedy exists at common
law.  The admiralty courts have jurisdiction over all
matters that concern owners and proprietors of ships as
such; possessory actions and petitory actions to try title
of a ship; cases of mariners' wages, wharfage, dockage,
lighterage, stevedores, contracts of affreightment, charter
parties, rights of passengers as such (the ``Moses Taylor,''
71 U.S. Rep. 411), pilotage, towage, maritime liens and
loans, bottomry, respondentia and hypothecation of ship and
cargo, marine insurance, average, jettison, demurrage,
collisions, consortship, bounties, survey and sale of vessel,
salvage; seizures under the laws of impost navigation or
trade, cases of prize, ransom, condemnation, restitution
and damages; assaults, batteries, damages and trespasses on
the high seas and navigable waters of the United States; but
not suits in rem for duties (Benedict's Adm. sec.  303a).

The U.S. Supreme Court has held in Peoples Ferry Co. v. Beers,
20 Howards U.S. Rep. 393, and in a series of subsequent cases
that a contract to build a vessel is not a maritime contract (the
``Robert W. Parsons'').  Contracts to furnish cargo for ships
and to furnish ships to carry the cargoes are maritime contracts
(Graham v. Oregon R. & N. Co., [1905] 135 Fed. Rep. 608).

Whenever there is a maritime lien, even though created by
state statute as to a ship in her home port, it may be enforced
by suit in rem in admiralty in the federal courts (the ``
General . Smith''; the ``Lottawanna,'' 21 Wallace Rep.
558, Benedict's Adm. sec.  270).  In all suits by material men
for supplies and repairs or other necessaries for a foreign
ship, the libellant may proceed against the ship and freight
in rem or against the master or owner in personam (12th
Admiralty Rule; Benedict's Adm. sec.  268; the ``General
Smith'').  Actions in rem and in personam may be joined
in the same libel (Newell v. Norton, 3 Wallace 257; the
``Normandie,'' 40 Fed. Rep. 590).  But a contract to furnish
fishermen with clothing, tobacco and other personal effects
for use on a voyage is not a maritime contract, and a court
of admiralty has no jurisdiction to enforce it in rem (the
``May F. Chisholm,'' 1904; 129 Fed. Rep. 814).  The state
courts have no jurisdiction in rem over any maritime contract
or tort (the ``Lottawanna,'' the ``Belfast,'' 7 Wallace Rep.
624).  Admiralty jurisdiction in tort depends on locality;
it must have occurred on the high seas or other navigable
waters within admiralty cognizance (2 Farsons Adm. 347; the
``Plymouth,'' 3 Wallace Rep. 20; the ``Genesee Chief'' v.
Fitz-Hugh, the ``Blackheath,'' [1903] 122 Fed. Rep. 112).

The U.S. Supreme Court in the ``Harrisburg'' (119 U.S. 199)
and the ``Alaska'' (130 U.S. 207), after some conflict of
opinion, held that the admiralty courts have no jurisdiction
under the general admiralty law to try an action for damages
for negligence on the high seas, causing death of a human
being, while there was no act of Congress and no statute
of the state to which the vessel belonged giving such
right of action (Benedict's Adm. sec. sec.  275-309a), nor
where such statute is that of a foreign country (Rundell
v. Compagnie Generale, [1899] 94 Fed. Rep. 366).

Admiralty has jurisdiction in cases of spoliation and
piracy, collision and proceedings by owners to limit
their liability under U.S. Rev. Stats. sec. sec.  4281-9.

The United States admiralty courts have always had jurisdiction
in matters of prize (The Prize Cases, 2 Black U.S. Rep.
635).  The district courts have exclusive original jurisdiction
(except that circuit courts also have jurisdiction when prize
is taken from persons in insurrection), and the supreme court
of the District of Columbia now has concurrent jurisdiction
(U.S. v. Sampson, 1902, 187 U.S. 436) and appeals are direct
to the Supreme Court.  Special commissioners are appointed
on the breaking out of hostilities to act under the orders of
the district courts (U.S.  Rev. Stats. sec.  4621, Prize Rule 9;
Benedict's Adm. sec. 509; 680 Pieces Merchandise, 2 Sprague
233).  These commissioners take the depositions of witnesses
and report to the court the evidence upon which it adjudicates.
Proceedings in prize cases must be in conformity with admiralty
proceedings, where the seizure is on land (Union Insurance Co.
v. U.S., 6 Wallace 759; 2 Parsons Adm. 174).  The district
courts have all the powers of a court of admiralty whether
as instance or prize courts (Glass v. sloop ``Betsy,''
3 Dallas 6). To adjudicate in matters of prize is one of the
ordinary functions of that court (Benedict's Adm. sec.  509).

The admiralty courts have jurisdiction over crimes and offences
committed upon vessels belonging to citizens of the United States
on the high seas or any arm of the sea or any waters within
the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States
(U.S.  Rev. Stats. sec.  5339).  High seas include the great
lakes ( U.S. v. Rogers, 150 U.S. 249). (J. A. BA.)

OTHER COUNTRIES

France, and countries following France.

In France, and in Belgium, Spain, Portugal, Italy and Greece
--countries which have adopted codes based on the Code
Napoleon--the civil, or, as it would have been formerly called
in England, the ``instance,'' jurisdiction of the admiralty
is exercised by the ordinary tribunals, and there are no
separate courts of admiralty for this purpose.  France and
some other countries have special commercial tribunals, which
deal with shipping matters, but also with ordinary commercial
cases.  France has also tribunaux maritimes commerciaux
(Code disciplinaire et penal de la marine marchande du 24
mars 1852, loi du 11 mars 1891) to deal with maritime
offences.  Austria adopts the French law in commercial
matters.  Italy had tribunals of commerce, but has given them
up.  She has, however, by Art. 14 of her Merchant Shipping Code,
given jurisdiction to captains of ports to decide collision
cases when the sum in dispute does not exceed 200 lire.

Germany.

In Germany there are no special tribunals for admiralty matters.
Kammern fur Handelssachen, commercial courts, have been
established in Berlin and some of the principal seaports.  These
deal with shipping matters, but also with all other commercial suits.

Scandinavian nations.

In Denmark, Sweden and Norway there is a maritime code which
came into force in Sweden in 1891, in Denmark in 1892, and
in Norway in 1893.  This was intended to be one code for the
three countries; but each country as it finally adopted the
code made some modifications of its own.  Under this code
there are in Norway permanent maritime courts for each town
presided over by the judge of the inferior local civil court
(civile underdommer), or if there be more than one such
judge then by the president, with two assessors chosen out of a
list.  Temporary local courts, consisting of the same judge
with two other members of nautical skill and knowledge, can
be constituted in districts where there are no permanent
courts.  Appeals lie to the supreme court (Hoiesterei.)
In Denmark maritime cases are brought before the local
courts constituted for maritime and commercial causes
(So-og-Handelsret.) In Sweden maritime cases are brought
before local courts of first instance consisting of a
judge and assessors.  There is an intermediate appeal to
courts of second instance, and then to the supreme court,
which finally decides upon all causes civil and commercial.

Maritime cases in Holland are tried by the ordinary
civil tribunals, with the same right of appeal.

Prize jurisdiction.

``By the maritime law of nations universally and immemorially
received there is an established method of determination
whether the capture be or be not lawful prize.  Before the
ship or goods can be disposed of by the captor there must
be a regular judicial proceeding wherein both parties may
be heard and condemnation thereupon as prize in a court of
admiralty judging by the law of nations and treaties. . . .
If the sentence of the court of admiralty is thought to be
erroneous, there is in every maritime country a superior court
of review. . . .'' (duke of Newcastle's letter to M. Michell,
secretary to the embassy of the king of Prussia, 1753). ``So
far as belligerent states do not make a practice of giving
up the taking of booty at sea . . . they are required by
international law to establish prize tribunals and thus give to
their proceedings in the matter of prize a judicial character''
(v . Holtzendorff, Rechtslexikon, tit. ``Prisengerichte'').

In France till the death of the duke of Montmorency in 1632
prize matters were adjudicated upon by the admiral.  The duke
had sold the office of admiral some years before his death to
Cardinal Richelieu; but about the period of the duke's death
the office of admiral appears to have been abolished, and one
of grand master of navigation established in lieu.  This new
office was first held by Cardinal Richelieu and continued till
1695.  The grand master took the admiral's place in matters
of prize; but in 1659 a commission of councillors of state
and masters of requests was appointed to assist the grand
master and form a Conseil des Prises. From this conseil
there was an appeal to the Conseil d'Etat. When the office
of admiral was restored in 1695 he exercised his jurisdiction
in prize matters with the assistance of the Conseil des
Prises. The appeal was then given to the Conseil Royal des
Finances. The Ordonnance sur la marine of August 1681
regulated the procedure.  This system continued till the
Revolution.  The last Conseil des Prises was appointed in
1778.  A law of the 14th of February 1793 abolished the
Conseil des Prises and gave cognizance of prize matters
``provisionally'' to the tribunals of commerce.  On the 8th
of November 1793 (18 Brumaire, an II.) this jurisdiction
was taken from the tribunals of commerce and given to the
Conseil Executif. Later it was given to the Comite de
Salut Public. On the 25th of October 1795 (3 Brumaire,
an IV.) the jurisdiction was restored to the tribunals of
commerce.  This was again altered on the 27th of March 1800 (6
Germinal, an VIII.), when a Conseil des Prises was established,
consisting of nine councillors of state, a commissary of the
government and a secretary, all nominated by the First Consul.

On the 11th of June 1806 an appeal was given to the Conseil
d'Etat. It was disputed among French jurists whether the
Conseil des Prises was to be considered as a body actuated
only by political considerations or one exercising what
the French term an ``administrative jurisdiction''; which
is, as nearly as a parallel to it can be found in England,
administration of justice between individuals and the state.

As most of the cases arising out of the great wars had
been dealt with, an ordinance of the 9th of January 1815
suppressed the Conseil des Prises and directed the Comite
du contentieux of the Conseil d'Etat to prepare the
remaining prize matters for decision by the Conseil d'Etat.
Such prize matters (probably including captures for trading
in slaves) as required to be dealt with till 1854, appear
to have been dealt with by this body; an ordinance of the
9th of September 1831 directing that the proceedings before
the Conseil d'Etat should be private, was held to show
that the jurisdiction was not political but administrative.

An Imperial decree, however, of the 18th of July 1854 restored
the Conseil des Prises, with appeal to the Conseil d'Etat.
This was for the war with Russia.  A similar decree was published
on the 9th of May 1859 for the war with Austria in Italy.

On the 28th of November 1861 a further decree ordered that
the Conseil instituted in 1859 should so long as it was
kept in being decide all prize matters; and this Conseil
has decided on prizes taken in the wars with Mexico and
Germany and in Cochin China.  It consists of seven judges and
a commissary of the government.  An appeal to the government
in the Conseil d'Etat can be brought within three months.
It is then decided by l'Assemblee du Conseil d'Etat.

Under the First Empire there were commissions des ports,
commissions colonials and commissions consulaires,
established mainly to collect materials for the Conseil des
Prises, but sometimes, when the ship and cargo were clearly
those of the enemy, proceeding to actual condemnation.

In Prussia Regulations of the 20th of June 1864 established a
prize council consisting of a president and six associates with
a law officer.  An appeal was given to an upper prize council
(v. Holtzendorff, Rechtslexikon, tit. ``Prisengerichte'').

By a law of the German empire of the 3rd of May 1884 the
legality of prizes made during war has to be decided by prize
courts, and the imperial government is authorized to determine
the particulars as to the seat of such courts, their members and
their proceedings (Reichsgesetzblatt of 1884, p. 49). Prize
courts were established under this law on the occasion of the East
African blockade in 1889 (Reichsgesetzblatt of 1889, pp. 5 sqq.).

In Italy Art. 14 of the Merchant Shipping Code provides
that prize matters shall be tried by a special commission
established by royal decree.  On the occasion of the war with
Austria such a special commission was established by royal
decree of the 20th of June 1866.  For the war with Abyssinia
a fresh commission was established by royal decree of the 16th
of August 1896.  The composition of this commission, which
was slightly different in character from that established in
1866, was as follows: (a) a first president of a court of
appeal or a retired one, or a president of a section of the
council of state or of cassation; (b) two general officers
of the navy; (c) a member of the ``contentious part'' of
the diplomatic service; (d) two councillors of a court of
appeal; (e) a captain of a port, with a commissary of the
government and a secretary; five to be a quorum.  There was no
appeal; but the ordinary right to have recourse to the Court
of Cassation at Rome, if the prize commission proceeded without
jurisdiction or in excess of jurisdiction, was preserved.

By an ordinance of the 27th of March 1895 regulating the whole
matter of prize in Russia, two sorts of prize tribunals of
first instance were contemplated--port tribunals and fleet
tribunals.  The latter are for captures made by ships of the
fleet, and are to be composed of some of the principal officers
of the fleet.  The former are to have presidents named by the
emperor from among those ``qui font partie de l'administration
maritime judiciaire''; the other members are to be appointed
by the ministers of the navy, justice and foreign affairs.
The court of appeal is formed by the council of the admiralty
with the addition of two members of the senate and a nominee
of the minister of foreign affairs (Clunet, 1904, p. 271).

On the occasion of the Russo-Japanese war, port tribunals were
established under the authority of this ordinance by the lord
high admiral, the Grand Duke Alexis, on the 13th of March 1904,
at Sebastopol--Port Alexander III., Port Arthur and Vladivostock
(Clunet, 1904, p. 479; London Gazette, 22nd March 1904).
Many cases were heard before these tribunals and on appeal.

The procedure in prize cases under the old law of Spain
is described in Abreu (Felix Joseph de Abreu y Bertodano),
Tratado juridico Politico sobre Presas de Mar (Cadiz,
1746).  On the occasion of the war with the United States
the Spanish government published a proclamation stating
the circumstances in which captures were to be made
and prizes taken; but information is lacking as to the
particular constitution of the prize court or courts.

In Greece prize questions are apparently left to be tried
by the ordinary tribunals.  See decision of Civil Tribunal
of Athens, 1898, No. 3385 (reported Clunet, 1900, p. 826).

Turkey during her war of 1877 with Russia established a prize
court and a court of appeal.  The ordinance establishing these
courts is set out in the London Gazette of the 6th of July 1877.

Japan established, in the war (1904-5) with Russia, prize
courts at Sasebo and Yokosco with a court of appeal at Tokyo.
Advocates were heard before these courts, and the procedure
seems generally to have been modelled upon European patterns.

AUTHORITIES.--Clunet, Journal du droit international prive,
cited shortly as Clunet; v.  Holzendorff, Rechtslexikon,
Leipzig, 1881; De Pistoye et Duverdy, Traite des prises
maritimes, Paris, 1855, vol. ii., tit. viii.; Phillimore,
International Law, vol. i., vol. iii. part xi.; Autran,
Code international de l'abordage, de l'assistance, et du
sauvetage maritimes, Paris, 1902; Raikes, The Maritime
Codes of Spain and Portugal (1896), of Holland and
Belgium (1898), of Italy (1900), London. (W. G. F. P.)

ADMISSION, in law, a statement made out of the witness-box
by a party to legal proceedings, whether civil or criminal,
or by some person whose statements are binding on that
party against the interest of that party. (See EVIDENCE.)

ADO (d. 874), archbishop of Vienne in Lotharingia, belonged
to a famous Frankish house, and spent much of his middle life in
Italy.  He held his archiepiscopal see from 850 till his
death on the 16th of December 874. Several of his letters
are extant and reveal their writer as an energetic man of
wide sympathies and considerable influence.  Ado's principal
works are a Martyrologium (printed inter al. in Migne,
Patrolog. lat. cxxiii. pp. 181-420; append. pp. 419-436),
and chronicle, Chronicon sive Breviarium chronicorum de sex
mundi aetalibus de Adamo usque ad ann. 869 (in Migne, cxxiii.
pp. 20-138, and Pertzn Monumenta Germ. ii. pp. 315-323,
&c.).  Ado's chronicle is based on that of Bede, with which he
combines extracts from the ordinary sources, forming the whole
into a consecutive narrative founded on the conception of the
unity of the Roman empire, which he traces in the succession of
the emperors, Charlemagne and his heirs following immediately
after Constantine and Irene. ``It is,'' says Wattenbach,
``history from the point of view of authority and preconceived
opinion, which exclude any independent judgment of events.''
Ado wrote also a book on the miracles (Miracula) of St
Bernard, archbishop of Vienne (9th century), published in
the Bollandist Acta Sanctorum; a life or Martyrium of St
Desiderius, bishop of Vienne (d. 608), written about 870 and
published in Migne, cxxiii. pp. 435-442; and a life of St
Theudericus, abbot of Vienne (563), published in Mabillon,
Acta Sanct. i. pp. 678-681, Migne, cxxiii. pp. 443-450, and
revised in Bollandist Acta Sanct. 29th Oct. xii. pp. 840-843.

See W. Wattenbach, Deutschlands Geschichtsquellen,
vol. i. (Stuttgart and Berlin, 1904).

ADOBE (pronounced a-do-be; also corrupted to dobie;
from the Span. adobar, to plaster, traceable through
Arabic to an Egyptian hieroglyph meaning ``brick''), a
Spanish-American word for the sun-dried clay used by the
Indians for building in some of the south-western states of
the American Union, this method having been imported in the
16th century by Spaniards from Mexico, Peru, &c. A distinction
is made between the smaller ``adobes,'' which are about the
size of ordinary baked bricks, and the larger ``adobines,''
some of which are as much as from one to two yards long.

ADOLESCENCE (Lat. adolescentia, from adolescere, to
grow up, past part. adultus, grown up, Eng. ``adult''), the
term now commonly adopted for the period between childhood
and maturity, during which the characteristics--mental,
physical and moral--that are to make or mar the individual
disclose themselves, and then mature, in some cases by
leaps and bounds, in others by more gradual evolution.
The annual rate of growth, in height, weight and strength,
increases to a marked extent and may even be doubled.  The
development in the man takes place in the direction of a
greater strength, in the woman towards a fitter form for
maternity.  The sex sense develops, the love of nature and
religion, and an overmastering curiosity both individual and
general.  This period of life, so fraught with its power for
good and ill, is accordingly the most important and by far
the most difficult for parents and educationists to deal with
efficiently.  The chief points for attention may be briefly
indicated.  Health depends mainly on two factors, heredity,
or the sum total of physical and mental leanings of the
individual, and environment.  In an ideal system of
training these two factors will be so fitted in and adapted
to one another, that what is weak or unprovided for in
the first will be amply compensated for in the second.

In an ideal condition children should be brought up in the
country as much as possible rather than in the town.  Though
adults may live where they like within very wide limits and
take no harm, children, even of healthy stock, living in towns,
are continually subject to many minor ills, such as chronic
catarrh, tonsillitis, bronchitis,and even the far graver
pneumonia.  Removed to healthier conditions in the country their
ailments tend to disappear, and normal physical development
supervenes.  The residence should be on a well-drained soil,
preferably near the sea in the case of a delicate child, on
higher ground for those of more robust constitution.  The
child should be lightly clad in woollen garments all the year
round, their thickness being slightly greater in winter than in
summer.  An abundance of simple well-cooked food in sufficient
variety, ample time at table, where an atmosphere of light
gaiety should be cultivated, and a period free from restraint
both before and after meals, should be considered fundamental
essentials.  As regards the most suitable kinds of food--milk
and fruit should be given in abundance, fresh meat once a
day, and fish or eggs once a day.  Bread had better be three
days old, and baked in the form of small rolls to increase
the ratio of crust to crumb.  Both butter and sugar are good
foods, and should be freely allowed in many forms.  The
exercise of the body must be duly attended to.  Nowadays this
is provided for in the shape of games, some being optional,
others prescribed, and such sports as boating, swimming,
fencing, &c. But severe exercise should only be allowed
under adequate medical control, and should be increased very
gradually.  In the case of girls, let them run, leap and
climb with their brothers for the first twelve years or so of
life.  But as puberty approaches, with all the change, stress
and strain dependent thereon, their lives should be appropriately
modified.  Rest should be enforced during the menstrual
periods of these earlier years, and milder, more graduated
exercise taken at other times.  In the same way all mental
strain should be diminished.  Instead of pressure being put
on a girl's intellectual education at about this time, as
is too often the case, the time devoted to school and books
should be diminished.  Education should be on broader, more
fundamental lines, and much time should be passed in the open
air.  With regard to the mental training of both sexes two
points must be borne in mind.  First, that an ample number
of hours should be set on one side for sleep, up to ten
years of age not less than eleven, and up to twenty years
not less than nine.  Secondly, that the time devoted to
``bookwork'' should be broken up into a number of short
periods, very carefully graduated to the individual child.

In every case where there is a family tendency towards any
certain disease or weakness, that tendency must determine
the whole circumstances of the child's life.  That diathesis
which is most serious and usually least regarded, the nervous
excitable one, is by far the most important and the most
difficult to deal with.  Every effort should be made to
avoid the conditions in which the hereditary predisposition
would be aroused into mischievous action, and to encourage
development on simple unexciting lines.  The child should be
confined to the schoolroom but little and receive most of his
training in wood and field.  Other diatheses--the tuberculous,
rheumatic, &c.---must be dealt with in appropriate ways.

The adolescent is prone to special weaknesses and moral
perversions.  The emotions are extremely unstable, and any
stress put on them may lead to undesirable results.  Warm
climates, tight-fitting clothes, corsets, rich foods, soft
mattresses, or indulgences of any kind, and also mental
over-stimulation, are especially to be guarded against.
The day should be filled with interests of an objective--in
contradistinction to subjective--kind, and the child should
retire to bed at night healthily fatigued in mind and body.
Let there be confidence between mother and daughter, father
and son, and, as the years bring the bodily changes, those
in whom the children trust can choose the fitting moments
for explaining their meaning and effect, and warning against
abuses of the natural functions.  For bibliography see CHILD.

ADOLPH OF NASSAU (c. 1255-.1298), German king, son of
Walram, count of Nassau.  He appears to have received a good
education, and inherited his father's lands around Wiesbaden in
1276.  He won considerable fame as a mercenary in many of the
feuds of the time, and on the 5th of May 1292 was chosen German
king, in succession to Rudolph I., an election due rather
to the political conditions of the time than to his personal
abilities.  He made large promises to his supporters, and
was crowned on the 1st of July at Aix-la-Chapelle.  Princes
and towns did homage to him, but his position was unstable,
and the allegiance of many of the princes, among them Albert
I., duke of Austria, son of the late king Rudolph, was merely
nominal.  Seeking at once to strengthen the royal position,
he claimed Meissen as a vacant fief of the Empire, and in
1294 allied himself with Edward I., king of England, against
France.  Edward granted him a subsidy, but owing to a
variety of reasons Adolph did not take the field against
France, but turned his arms against Thuringia, which he
had purchased from the landgrave Albert II. This bargain
was resisted by the sons of Albert, and from 1294 to 1296
Adolph was campaigning in Meissen and Thuringia.  Meissen was
conquered, but he was not equally successful in Thuringia,
and his relations with Albert of Austria were becoming more
strained.  He had been unable to fulfil the promises made at his
election, and the princes began to look with suspicion upon his
designs.  Wenceslaus II., king of Bohemia, fell away from his
allegiance, and his deposition was decided on, and was carried
out at Mainz, on the 23rd of May 1298, when Albert of Austria
was elected his successor.  The forces of the rival kings
met at Gollheim on the 2nd of July 1298, where Adolph was
killed, it is said by the hand of Albert.  He was buried at
Rosenthal, and in 1309 his remains were removed to Spires.

See F. W. E. Roth, Geschichte des Romischen Konigs Adolf I.
von Nassau (Wiesbaden, 1879); V. Domeier, Die Absetzung Adolf
von Nassau (Berlin, 1889); L. Ennen, Die Wahl des Konigs
Adolf von Nassau (Cologne, 1866); L. Schmid, Die Wahl des
Grossen Adolf von Nassau zum Romischen Konig; B. Gebhardt,
Handbuch der deutschen Geschichte, Band i. (Berlin, 1901).

ADOLPHUS, JOHN LEYCESTER (1795-1862), English lawyer and
author, was the son of John Adolphus (1768--1845), a well-known
London barrister who wrote a History of England to 1783
(1802), a History of France from 1790 (1803) and other
works.  He was educated at Merchant Taylors' School and at
St. John's College, Oxford.  In 1821 he published Letters to
Richard Heber, Esq., in which he discussed the authorship of
the then anonymous Waverley novels, and fixed it upon Sir Walter
Scott.  This conclusion was based on the resemblance of the
novels in general style and method to the poems acknowledged
by Scott.  Scott thought at first that the letters were
written by Reginald Heber, afterwards bishop of Calcutta,
and the discovery of J. L. Adolphus's identity led to a warm
friendship.  Adolphus was called to the bar in 1822, and his
Circuiteers, an Eclogue, is a parody of the style of two of
his colleagues on the northern circuit.  He became judge of the
Marylebone County Court in 1852, and was a bencher of the Inner
Temple.  He was the author of Letters from Spain in 1816
and 1817 (1858), and was completing his father's History of
England at the time of his death on the 24th of December 1862.

ADOLPHUS FREDERICK (1710-1771), king of Sweden, was born
at Gottorp on the 14th of May 1710.  His father was Christian
Augustus (1673--1726), duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Gottorp,
bishop of Lubeck, and administrator, during the war of
1700--1721, of the duchies of Holstein-Gottorp for his nephew
Charles Frederick; his mother was Albertina Frederica of
Baden-Durlach.  From 1727 to 1750 he was bishop of Lubeck,
and administrator of Holstein-Kiel during the minority of Duke
Charles Peter Ulrich, afterwards Peter III. of Russia.  In
1743 he was elected heir to the throne of Sweden by the ``Hat''
faction in order that they might obtain better conditions of
peace from the empress Elizabeth, whose fondness for the house
of Holstein was notorious (see SWEDEN, History). During
his whole reign (1751-1771) Adolphus Frederick was little more
than a state decoration, the real power being lodged in the
hands of an omnipotent riksdag, distracted by fierce party
strife.  Twice he endeavoured to free himself from the
intolerable tutelage of the estates.  The first occasion
was in 1755 when, stimulated by his imperious consort Louisa
Ulrica, sister of Frederick the Great, he tried to regain
a portion of the attenuated prerogative, and nearly lost
his throne in consequence.  On the second occasion, under
the guidance of his eldest son, the crown prince Gustavus,
afterwards Gustavus III., he succeeded in overthrowing the
tyrannous ``Cap'' senate, but was unable to make any use of
his victory.  He died of surfeit at Stockholm on the 12th
of February 1771.  See R. Nisbet Bain, Gustavus III. and
his Contemporaries, vol. i. (London, 1895). (R. N. B.)

ADONI, a town of British India, in the Bellary district of
Madras, 307 m. from Madras by rail.  It has manufactures of
carpets, silk and cotton goods, and several factories for ginning
and pressing cotton.  The hill-fort above, now in ruins, was an
important seat of government in Mahommedan times and is frequently
mentioned in the wars of the 18th century.  Pop. (1901) 30,416.

ADONIJAH (Heb. Adoniyyah or Adoniyyahu, ``Yah is
Lord''), a name borne by several persons in the Old
Testament, the most noteworthy of whom was the fourth son of
David.  He was born to Haggith at Hebron (2 Sam. iii. 4; 1
Ch. iii. 2). The natural heir to the throne, on the death of
Absalom, he sought with the help of Joab and Abiathar to seize
his birthright, and made arrangements for his coronation (1
Kings i. 5 ff.).  Hearing, however, that Solomon, with the
help of Nathan the prophet and Bathsheba, and apparently
with the consent of David, had ascended the throne, he fled
for safety to the horns of the altar.  Solomon spared him
on this occasion (1 Kings i. 50 ff.), but later commanded
Benaiah to slay him (ii. 13 ff.), because with the approval
of Bathsheba he wished to marry Abishag, formerly David's
concubine, and thus seemed to have designs on the throne.

ADONIS, in classical mythology, a youth of remarkable
beauty, the favourite of Aphrodite.  According to the story
in Apollodorus (iii. 14. 4), he was the son of the Syrian king
Theias by his daughter Smyrna (Myrrha), who had been inspired
by Aphrodite with unnatural love.  When Theias discovered the
truth he would have slain his daughter, but the gods in pity
changed her into a tree of the same name.  After ten months the
tree burst asunder and from it came forth Adonis.  Aphrodite,
charmed by his beauty, hid the infant in a box and handed
him over to the care of Persephone, who afterwards refused to
give him up.  On an appeal being made to Zeus, he decided that
Adonis should spend a third of the year with Persephone and
a third with Aphrodite, the remaining third being at his own
disposal.  Adonis was afterwards killed by a boar sent by
Artemis.  There are many variations in the later forms of the
story (notably in Ovid, Metam. x. 298).  The name is generally
supposed to be of Phoenician origin (from adon--``lord''),
Adonis himself being identified with Tammuz (but see F.
Dummler in Pauly-Wissowa's Realencyklopadie, who does not
admit a Semitic origin for either name or cult).  The name
Abobas, by which he was known at Perga in Pamphyha, certainly
seems connected with abub (a Semitic word for ``flute''; cf.
``ambubaiarum collegia'' in Horace, Satires, i. 2. 1). (See
also ATTIS.) Annual festivals, called Adonia, were held in
his honour at Byblus, Alexandria, Athens and other places.
Although there were variations in the ceremony itself and in
its date, the central idea was the death and resurrection of
Adonis.  A vivid description of the festival at Alexandria
(for which Bion probably wrote his Dirge cf. Adonis) is
given by Theocritus in his fifteenth idyll, the Adoniazusae.
On the first day, which celebrated the union of Adonis and
Aphrodite, their images were placed side by side on a silver
couch, around them all the fruits of the season, ``Adonis
gardens'' in silver baskets, golden boxes of myrrh, cakes of
meal, honey and oil, made in the likeness of things that
creep and things that fly.  On the day following the image
of Adonis was carried down to the shore and cast into the
sea by women with dishevelled hair and bared breasts.  At
the same time a song was sung, in which the god was entreated
to be propitious in the coming year.  This festival, like
that at Athens, was held late in summer; at Byblus, where
the mourning . ceremony preceded, it took place in spring.

It is now generally agreed that Adonis is a vegetation spirit,
whose death and return to life represent the decay of nature
in winter and its revival in spring.  He is born from the
myrrh-tree, the oil of which is used at his festival; he is
connected with Aphrodite in her character of vegetation-goddess.
A special feature of the Athenian festival was the ``Adonis
gardens,'' small pots of flowers forced to grow artificially,
which rapidly faded (hence the expression was used to denote
any transitory pleasure).  The dispute between Aphrodite
and Persephone for the possession of Adonis, settled by the
agreement that he is to spend a third (or half) of the year
in the lower-world (the seed at first underground and then
reappearing above it), finds a parallel in the story of Tammuz
and Ishtar (see APHRODITE) The ceremony of the Adonia was
intended as a charm to promote the growth of vegetation,
the throwing of the gardens and images into the water being
supposed to procure a supply of rain (for European parallels see
Mannhardt).  It is suggested (Frazer) that Adonis is not a
god of vegetation generally, but specially a corn-spirit,
and that the lamentation is not for the decay of vegetation
in winter, but for the cruel treatment of the corn by the
reaper and miller (cf. Robert Burns's John Barleycorn.)

All important element in the story is the connexion of
Adonis with the boar, which (according to one version) brings
him into the world by splitting with his tusk the bark of
the tree into which Smyrna was changed, and finally kills
him.  It is probable that Adonis himself was looked upon
as incarnate in the swine, so that the sacrifice to him by
way of expiation on special occasions of an animal which
otherwise was specially sacred, and its consumption by its
worshippers, was a sacramental act.  Other instances of a
god being sacrificed to himself as his own enemy are the
sacrifice of the goat and bull to Dionysus and of the bear to
Artemis.  The swine would be sacrificed as having caused the
death of Adonis, which explains the dislike of Aphrodite for that
animal.  It has been observed that whenever swine sacrifices
occur in the ritual of Aphrodite there is reference to Adonis.
In any vase, the conception of Adonis as a swine-god does not
contradict the idea of him as a vegetation or corn spirit, which
in many parts of Europe appears in the form of a boar or sow.

AUTHORITIES.--H.  Brugsch, Die Adonisklage und das
Linoslied (Berlin, 1852); Grove, De Adonide (Leipzig,
1877); W. H. Engel, Kypros, ii. (1841), still valuable;
W. Mannhardt, Wald- und Feldkulte, ii. (1905); M. P.
Nilsson, Griechische Feste (Leipzig, 1906); articles in
Roscher's Lexikon and Pauly-Wissowa's Encyklopadie J.
G. Frazer, The Golden Bough, ii. (2nd ed.), p. 113, and
Adonis, Attis and Osiris (1906); L. R. Farnell, Cults of
the Greek States, ii. p. 646; W. Robertson Smith (Religion
of the Semites, new ed., 1894, pp. 191, 290, 411), who,
regarding Adonis as the swine-god, characterizes the Adonia
as an annual piacular sacrifice (of swine), ``in which the
sacrifice has come to be overshadowed by its popular and
dramatic accompaniments, to which the Greek celebration,
not forming part of the state religion, was limited.''

ADONIS, a genus of plants belonging to the natural order
Ranunculaceae, known commonly by the nomes of pheasant's
eye and Flos Adonis. They are annual or perennial
herbs with much divided leaves and yellow or red flowers.
Adonis autumnalis has become naturalized in some parts
of England; the petals are scarlet with a dark spot at the
base.  An early flowering species, Adonis vernalis, with
large bright yellow flowers, is well worthy of cultivation.
It prefers a deep light soil.  The name is also given to the
butterfly, Mazarine or Clifton Blue (Polyomreatus Adonis).

ADOPTIANISM. As the theological doctrine of the Logos which
bulks so largely in the writings of the apologists of the
2nd century came to the front, the trinitarian problem became
acute.  The necessity of a constant protest against polytheism
led to a tenacious insistence on the divine unity, and the
task was to reconcile this unity with the deity of Jesus
Christ.  Some thinkers fell back on the ``modalistic'' solution
which regards ``Father'' and ``Son'' as two aspects of the
same subject, but a simpler and more popular method was the
``adoptionist'' or humanitarian.  Basing their views on the
synoptic Gospels, and tracing descent from the obscure sect
of the Alogi, the Adoptianists under Theodotus of Byzantium
tried to found a school at Rome c. 185, asserting that
Jesus was a man, filled with the Holy Spirit's inspiration
from his baptism; and sa attaining such a perfection of
holiness that he was adopted by God and exalted to divine
dignity.  Theodotus was excommunicated by the bishop of
Rome, Victor, c. 195, but his followers lived on under a
younger teacher of the same name and under Artemon. while
in the Fast similar views were expounded by Beryllus of
Bostra and Paul of Samosata, who undoubtedly influenced
Lucian of Antioch and his school, including Arius and, later,
Nestorius.  There is thus a traceable historical connexion
between the early adoptian controversy and the struggle
in Spain at the end of the 8th century, to which that name
is usually given.  It was indeed only a renewal, under new
conditions, of the conflict between two types of thought, the
rational and the mystical, the school of Antioch and that of
Alexandria.  The writings of Theodore of Mopsuestia had
become well known in the West, especially since the strife
over the ``three chapters'' (544-553), and the opposition
of Islam also partly determined the form of men's views on
the doctrine of Christ's person.  We must further remember
the dyophysitism which had been sanctioned at the council of
Chalcedon.  About 780 Ehpandus (b. 718), archbishop of
Toledo, revived and vehemently defended the expression
Christus Filius Dei adoptivus, and was aided by his much
more gifted friend Felix, bishop of Urgella.  They held that
the duality of natutes implied a distinction between two
modes of sonship in Christ---the natural or proper, and the
adoptive.  In support of their views they appealed to scripture
and to the Western Fathers, who had used the term ``adoption''
as synonymous with ``assumption'' in the orthodox sense; and
especially to Christ's fraternal relation to Christians--the
brother of God's adopted sons.  Christ, the firstborn among
many brethren, had a natural birth at Bethlehem and also a
spiritual birth begun at his baptism and consummated at his
resurrection.  Thus they did not teach a dual personality,
nor the old Antiochene view that Christ's divine exaltation was
due to his sinless virtue; they were less concerned with old
disputes than with the problem as the Chalcedon decision had left
it--the relation of Christ's one personality to his two natures.

Felix introduced adoptian views into that part of Spain which
belonged to the Franks, and Charlemagne thought it necessary
to assemble a synod at Regensburg (Ratisbon), in 792, before
which the bishop was summoned to explain and justify the new
doctrine.  Instead of this he renounced it, and confirmed
his renunciation by a solemn oath to Pope Adrian, to whom
the synod sent him.  The recantation was probably insincere,
for on returning to his diocese he taught adoptianism as
before.  Another synod was held at Frankfort in 794,
by which the new doctrine was again formally condemned,
though neither Felix nor any of his followers appeared.

In this synod Alcuin of York took part.  A friendly letter from
Alcuin, and a controversial pamphlet, to which Felix replied,
were followed by the sending of several commissions of clergy
to Spain to endeavour to put down the heresy.  Archbishop
Leidrad (d. 816) of Lyons, being on one of these commissions,
persuaded Felix to appear before a synod at Aix-la-Chapelle
in 799. There, after six days' disputing with Alcuin, he again
recanted his heresy.  The rest of his life was spent under the
supervision of the archbishop at Lyons, where he died in 816.
Elipapdus, secure in his see at Toledo, never swerved from
the adoptian views, which, however, were almost universally
abandoned after the two leaders died.  In the scholastic
discussions of the 12th century the question came to the front
again, for the doctrine as framed by Alcuin was not universally
accepted.  Thus both Abelard and Peter Lombard, in the interest
of the immutability of the divine substance (holding that God
could not ``become', anything), gravitated towards a Nestorian
position.  The great opponent of their Christology, which
was known as Nihilianism, was the German scholar Gerhoch,
who, for his bold assertion of the perfect interpenetration
of deity and humanity in Christ, was accused of Eutychianism.
The proposition Deus non factus est aliquid secundum quod
est homo was condemned by a synod of Tours in 1163 and again
by the Lateran synod of 1179, but Adoptianism continued all
through the middle ages to be a source of theological dispute.

See A. Harnack, Hist. of Dogma, esp. vol. v. pp.
279-292; R. Ottley, The Doctrine of the Incarnation,
vol. i. p. 228 ff, vol. ii. pp. 151-161; Herzog-Hauck,
Realenclyk., art. ``Adoptianismus.'' (A. J. G.)

ADOPTION (Lat. adoptio, for adoptatio, from adoptare,
to choose for oneself), the act by which the relations of
paternity and filiation are recognized as legally existing
between persons not so related by nature.  Cases of adoption
were very frequent among the Greeks and Romans, and the custom
was accordingly very strictly regulated in their laws.  In
Athens the power of adoption was allowed to all citizens who
were of sound mind, and who possessed no male offspring of their
own, and it could be exercised either during lifetime or by
testament.  The person adopted, who required to be himself
a citizen, was enrolled in the family and demus of the
adoptive father, whose name, however, he did not necessarily
assume.  In the interest of the next of kin, whose rights
were affected by a case of adoption, it was provided that the
registration should be attended with certain formalities, and
that it should take place at a fixed time--the festival of the
Thargelia. The rights and duties of adopted children were
almost identical with those of natural offspring, and could
not be renounced except in the case of one who had begotten
children to take his place in the family of his adoptive
father.  Adopted into another family, children ceased to
have any claim of kindred or inheritance through their
natural father, though any rights they might have through
their mother were not similarly affected.  Among the Romans
the existence of the patria potestas gave a peculiar
significance to the custom of adoption.  The motive to the
act was not so generally childlessness, or the gratification
of affection, as the desire to acquire those civil and
agnate rights which were founded on the patria potestas.
It was necessary, however, that the adopter should have no
children of his own, and that he should be of such an age
as to preclude reasonable expectation of any being born to
him.  Another limitation as to age was imposed by the maxim
adoptio imitatur naturam, which required the adoptive
father to be at least eighteen years older than the adopted
children.  According to the same maxim eunuchs were not
permitted to adopt, as being impotent to beget children for
themselves.  Adoption was of two kinds according to the state
of the person adopted, who might be either still under the
patria potestas (alieni juris), or his own master (sui
juris).  In the former case the act was one of adoption
proper, in the latter case it was styled adrogation,
though the term adoption was also used in a general sense to
describe both species.  In adoption proper the natural father
publicly sold his child to the adoptive father, and the sale
being thrice repeated, the maxim of the Twelve Tables took
effect, Si pater filium ter venunduit, filius a patre liber
esto. The process was ratified and completed by a fictitious
action of recovery brought by the adoptive father against the
natural parent, which the latter did not defend, and which was
therefore known as the cessio in jure. Adrogation could
be accomplished originally only by the authority of the people
assembled in the Comitia, but from the time of Diocletian
it was effected by an imperial rescript.  Females could not be
adrogated, and, as they did not possess the patria potestas,
they could not exercise the right of adoption in either
kind.  The whole Roman law on the subject of adoption will
be found in Justinian's Institutes, lib. i. tit. II.

In Hindu law, as in nearly every ancient system, wills
were formerly unknown, and adoptions took their place. (See
INDIAN LAW.) Adoption is not recognized in the laws of
England, Scotland or the Netherlands, though there are legal
means by which one may be enabled to assume the name and
arms and to inherit the property of a stranger. (See NAME.)

In France and Germany, countries which may he said to have
embodied the Roman law in their jurisprudence, adoption is
regulated according to the principles of Justinian, though
with several more or less important modifications, rendered
necessary by the usages of these countries respectively.  Under
French law the rights of adoption can be exercised only by
those who are over fifty years of age, and who, at the time of
adoption, have neither children nor legitimate descendants.
They must also be fifteen years older than the person adopted.
In German law the person adopting must either be fifty years of
age, or at least eighteen years older than the adopted, unless
a special dispensation is obtained.  If the person adopted
is a legitimate child, the consent of his parents must be
obtained; if illegitimate, the consent of the mother.  Both in
Germany and France the adopted child remains a member of his
original family, and acquires no rights in the family of the
adopter other than that of succession to the person adopting.

In the United States adoption is regulated by the statutes
of the several states.  Adoption of minors is permitted by
statute in many of the states.  These statutes generally require
some public notice to be given of the intention to adopt,
and an order of approval after a hearing before some public
authority.  The consequence commonly is that the person adopted
becomes, in the eyes of the law, the child of the person
adopting, for all purposes.  Such an adoption, if consummated
according to the law of the domicile, is equally effectual
in any other state into which the parties may remove.  The
relative status thus newly acquired is ubiquitous. (See Whitmore,
Laws of Adoption; Ross v. Ross, 129 Massachusetts Reports,
243.) The part played by the legal fiction of adoption in the
constitution of primitive society and the civilization of the
race is so important, that Sir Henry S. Maine, in his Ancient
Law, expresses the opinion that, had it never existed, the
primitive groups of mankind could not have coalesced except
on terms of absolute superiority on the one side and absolute
subjection on the other.  With the institution of adoption,
however, one people might feign itself as descended from the
same stock as the people to whose sacra gentilicia it was
admitted; and amicable relations were thus established between
stocks which, but for this expedient, must have submitted
to the arbitrament of the sword with all its consequences.

ADORATION (Lat. ad, to, and os, mouth; i.e. ``carrying
to one's mouth''), primarily an act of homage or worship,
which, among the Romans, was performed by raising the hand
to the mouth, kissing it and then waving it in the direction
of the adored object.  The devotee had his head covered,
and after the act turned himself round from left to right.
Sometimes he kissed the feet or knees of the images of the gods
themselves, and Saturn and Hercules were adored with the head
bare.  By a natural transition the homage, at first paid to
divine beings alone, came to be paid to monarchs.  Thus the
Greek and Roman emperors were adored by bowing or kneeling,
laying hold of the imperial robe, and presently withdrawing
the hand and pressing it to the lips, or by putting the royal
robe itself to the lips.  In Eastern countries adoration has
ever been performed in an attitude still more lowly.  The
Persian method, introduced by Cyrus, was to bend the knee
and fall on the face at the prince's feet, striking the earth
with the forehead and kissing the ground.  This striking of
the earth with the forehead, usually a fixed number of times,
is the form of adoration usually paid to Eastern potentates
to-day.  The Jews kissed in homage.  Thus in 1 Kings xix.
18, God is made to say, ``Yet I have left me seven thousand
in Israel, all the knees which have not bowed unto Baal,
and every mouth which hath not kissed him.'' And in Psalms
ii. 12, ``Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and ye perish
from the way.'' (See also Hosea xiii. 2.) In England the
ceremony of kissing the sovereign's hand, and some other acts
which are performed kneeling, may be described as forms of
adoration.  Adoration is applied in the Roman Church to the
ceremony of kissing the pope's foot, a custom which is said
to have been introduced by the popes following the example
of the emperor Diocletian.  The toe of the famous statue of
the apostle in St Peter's, Rome, shows marked wear caused by
the kisses of pilgrims.  In the Roman Church a distinction
is made between Latria, a worship due to God alone, and
Dulia or Hyperdulia, the adoration paid to the Virgin,
saints, martyrs, crucifixes, &c. (See further HOMAGE.)

ADORF, a town of Germany, in the kingdom of Saxony, 3 m. from
the Bohemian frontier, at an elevation of 1400 ft. above the
sea, on the Plauen-Eger and Aue-Adorf lines of railway.  Pop.
5000.  It has lace, dyeing and tanning industries, and
manufactures of toys and musical instruments; and there is
a convalescent home for the poor of the city of Leipzig.

ADOUR (anc. Aturrus or Adurus, from Celtic dour,
water), a river of south-west France, rising in the department
of Hautes Pyrenees, and flowing in a wide curve to the Bay of
Biscay.  It is formed of several streams having their origin
in the massif of the Pic d'Arbizon and the Pic du Midi de
Bigorre, but during the first half of its course remains an
inconsiderable river.  In traversing the beautiful valley of
Campan it is artificially augmented in summer by the waters
of the Lac Bleu, which are drawn off by means of a siphon, and
flow down the valley of I esponne.  After passing Bagneres
de Bigorre the Adour enters the plain of Tarbes, and for the
remainder of its course in the department of Hautes Pyrenees
is of much less importance as a waterway than as a means
of feeding the numerous irrigation canals which cover the
plains on each side.  Of these the oldest and most important
is the Canal d'Alaric, which follows the right bank for 36
m.  Entering the department of Gers, the Adour receives the
Arros on the right bank and begins to describe the large westward
curve which takes it through the department of Landes to the
sea.  In the last-named department it soon becomes navigable,
namely, at St Sever, after passing which it is joined on the
left by the Larcis, Gabas, Louts and Luy, and on the right
by the Midouze, which is formed by the union of the Douze
and the Midour, and is navigable for 27 m.; now taking a
south-westerly course it receives on the left the Gave de
Pau, which is a more voluminous river than the Adour itself,
and flowing past Bayonne enters the sea through a dangerous
estuary, in which sandbars are formed, after a total course
of 208 m., of which 82 are navigable.  The mouth of the
Adout has repeatedly shifted. its old bed being represented
by the series of etangs and lagoons extending northward
as far as the village of Vieux Boucau, 22 1/2 m. north of
Bayonne, where it found a new entrance into the sea at the
end of the 14th century.  Its previous mouth had been 10 m.
south of Vieux Boucau.  The present channel was constructed
by the engineer Louis de Foix in 1579.  There is a depth
over the bar at the entrance of 10 1/2 to 16 ft. at high
tide.  The area of the basin of the Adour is 6565 sq. m.

ADOWA (properly ADUA), the capital of Tigre, northern
Abyssinia, 145 m.  N.E. of Gondar and 17 m.  E. by N. of Axum,
the ancient capital of Abyssinia.  Adowa is built on the slope
of a hill at an elevation of 6500 ft., in the midst of a rich
agricultural district.  Being on the high road from Massawa
to central Abyssinia, it is a meeting-place of merchants from
Arabia and the Sudan for the exchange of foreign merchandise
with the products of the country.  During the wars between
the Italians and Abyssinia (1887-96) Adowa was on three or
four occasions looted and burnt; but the churches escaped
destruction.  The church of the Holy Trinity, one of the
largest in Abyssinia, contains numerous wall-paintings of
native art.  On a hill about 2 1/2 m. north-west of Adowa are
the ruins of Fremona, the headquarters of the Portuguese
Jesuits who lived in Abyssinia during the 16th and 17th
centuries.  On the 1st of March 1896, in the hills north
of the town, was fought the battle of Adowa, in which the
Abyssinians inflicted a crushing defeat on the Italian
forces (see ITALY, History, and ABYSSINIA, History).

ADRA (anc. Abdera), a seaport of southern Spain, in the
province of Almeria; at the mouth of the Rio Grande de Adra, and
on the Mediterranean Sea. Pop. (1900) 11,188.  Adra is the port
of shipment for the lead obtained near Berja, 10 m. north-east;
but its commercial development is retarded by the lack of a
railway.  Besides lead, the exports include grapes, sugar and
esparto.  Fuel is imported, chieffly from the United Kingdom.

ADRAR (Berber for ``uplands''), the name of various
districts of the Saharan desert, Northern Africa.  Adrar
Suttuf is a hilly region forming the southern part of the
Spanish protectorate of the Rio de Oro (q.v.). Adrar or
Adrar el Jebli, otherwise Adghagh, is a plateau north-east of
Timbuktu.  It is the headquarters of the Awellimiden
Tuareg (see TUAREG and SAHARA). Adrar n'Ahnet and Adrar
Adhafar are smaller regions in the Ahnet country south of
Insalah.  Adrar Temur, the country usually referred to when
Adrar is spoken of, is in the western Sahara, 300 m. north
of the Senegal and separated on the north-west from Adrar
Suttuf by wide valleys and sand dunes.  Adrar is within the
French sphere of influence.  In general barren, the country
contains several oases, with a total population of about
10,000.  In 1900 the oasis of Atar, on the western borders
of the territory, was reached by Paul Blanchet, previously
known for his researches on ancient Berber remains in Algeria.
(Blanchet died in Senegal on the 6th of October 1900, a
few days after his return from Adrar.) Atar is inhabited
by Yrab and Berber tribes, and is described as a wretched
spot.  The other centres of population are Shingeti, Wadan and
Ujeft, Shingeti being the chief commercial centre, whence
caravans take to St Louis gold-dust, ostrich feathers and
dates.  A considerable trade is also done in salt from the
sebkha of Ijil, in the north-west.  Adrar occupies the most
elevated part of a plateau which ends westwards in a steep
escarpment and falls to the east in a succession of steps.

Adrar or Adgar is also the name sometimes given to the chief
settlement in the oasis of Tuat in the Algerian Sahara.

ADRASTUS, in Greek legend, was the son of Talaus, king of
Argos, and Lysianassa, daughter of Polybus, king of Sicyon.
Having been driven from Argos by Amphiaraus, Adrastus fled to
Sicyon, where he became king on the death of Polybus.  After
a time he became reconciled to Amphiaraus, gave him his sister
Eriphyle in marriage, and returned to Argos and occupied the
throne.  In consequence of an oracle which had commanded him
to marry his daughters to a lion and a boar, he wedded them
to Polyneices and Tydeus, two fugitives, clad in the skins of
these animals or carrying shields with their figures on them,
who claimed his hospitality.  He was the instigator of the
famous war against Thebes for the restoration of his son-in-law
Polyneices, who had been deprived of his rights by his brother
Eteocles.  Adrastus, followed by Polyneices and Tydeus, his two
sons-inlaw, Amphiaraus, his brother-in-law, Capaneus, Hippomedon
and Parthenopaeus, marched against the city of Thebes, and
on his way is said to have founded the Nemean games.  This
is the expedition of the ``Seven against Thebes,'' which the
poets have made nearly as famous as the siege of Troy.  As
Amphiaraus had foretold, they all lost their lives in this war
except Adrastus, who was saved by the speed of his horse Arion
(Iliad, xxiii. 346).  Ten years later, at the instigation of
Adrastus, the war was renewed by the sons of the chiefs who had
fallen.  This expedition was called the war of the ``Epigoni''
or descendants, and ended in the taking and destruction of
Thebes.  None of the followers of Adrastus perished except his
son Aegialeus, and this affected him so greatly that he died
of grief at Megara, as he was leading back his victorious army.

Apollodorus iii. 6, 7; Aeschylus, Septem contra Thebes; Euripides,
Phoenissae, Supplices; Statius, Thebais; Herodotus v. 67.

ADRIA (anc. Atria; the form Adria or Hadria is less
correct: Hatria was a town in Picenum, the modern Atri), a
town and episcopal see of Venetia, Italy, in the province of
Rovigo, 15 m.  F. by rail from the town of Rovigo.  It is
situated between the mouths of the Adige and the Po, about
13 1/2 m. from the sea and but 13ft. above it.  Pop. (1901)
15,678.  The town occupies the site of the ancient Atria,
which gave its name to the Adriatic.  Its origin is variously
ascribed by ancient writers, but it was probably a Venetian,
i.e. Illyrian, not an Etruscan, foundation--still less a
foundation of Dionysius I. of Syracuse.  Imported vases of
the second half of the 5th century B.C. prove the existence
of trade with Greece at that period; and the town was famous
in Aristotle's day for a special breed of fowls.  Even at
that period, however, the silt brought down by the rivers
rendered access to the harbour difficult, and the historian
Philistus excavated a canal to give free access to the
sea.  This was still open in the imperial period, and the
town, which was a municipium, possessed its own gild
of sailors; but its importance gradually decreased.  Its
remains lie from 10 to 20 ft. below the modern level.  The
Museo Civico and the Bocchi collection contain antiquities.

See R. Schone, Le antichita del Museo
Bocchi di Adria (Rome, 1878). (T. As.)

ADRIAN, or HADRIAN (Lat. Hadrianus), the name of six
popes. ADRIAN I., pope from 772 to 705, was the son of
Theodore, a Roman nobleman.  Soon after his accession the
territory that had been bestowed on the popes by Pippin was
invaded by Desiderius, king of the Lombards, and Adrian found
it necessary to invoke the aid of Charlemagne, who entered
Italy with a large army, besieged Desiderius in his capital of
Pavia, took that town, banished the Lombard king to Corbie in
France and united the Lombard kingdom with the other Frankish
possessions.  The pope, whose expectations had been aroused,
had to content himself with some additions to the duchy of
Rome, and to the Exarchate, and the Pentapolis.  In his
contest with the Greek empire and the Lombard princes of
Benevento, Adrian remained faithful to the Frankish alliance,
and the friendly relations between pope and emperor were
not disturbed by the difference which arose between them on
the question of the worship of images, to which Charlemagne
and the Gallican Church were strongly opposed, while Adrian
favoured the views of the Eastern Church, and approved the
decree of the council of Nicaea (787), confirming the practice
and excommunicating the iconoclasts.  It was in connexion with
this controversy that Charlemagne wrote the so-called Libri
Carolini, to which Adrian replied by letter, anathematizing
all who refused to worship the images of Christ, or the
Virgin, or saints.  Notwithstanding this, a synod, held
at Frankfort in 794, anew condemned the practice, and the
dispute remained unsettled at Adrian's death.  An epitaph
written by Charlemagne in verse, in which he styles Adrian
``father,'' is still to be seen at the door of the Vatican
basilica.  Adrian restored the ancient aqueducts of Rome,
and governed his little state with a firm and skilful hand.

ADRIAN II., pope from 867 to 872, was a member of a
noble Roman family, and became pope in 867, at an advanced
age.  He maintained, but with less energy, the attitude of his
predecessor.  Rid of the affair of Lothair, king of Lorraine,
by the death of that prince (869), he endeavoured in vain to
mediate between the Frankish princes with a view to assuring
to the emperor, Louis II., the heritage of the king of
Lorraine.  Photius, shortly after the council in which he
had pronounced sentence of deposition against Pope Nicholas,
was driven from the patriarchate by a new emperor, Basil the
Macedonian, who favoured his rival Ignatius.  An oecumenical
council (called by the Latins the 8th) was convoked at
Constantinople to decide this matter.  At this council Adrian
was represented by legates, who presided at the condemnation
of Photius, but did not succeed in coming to an understanding
with Ignatius on the subject of the jurisdiction over the
Bulgarian converts.  Like his predecessor Nicholas, Adrian
II. was forced to submit, at least in temporal affairs, to
the tutelage of the emperor, Louis II., who placed him under
the surveillance of Arsenius, bishop of Orta, his confidential
adviser, and Arsenius's son Anastasius, the librarian.
Adrian had married in his youth, and his wife and daughter
were still living.  They were carried off and assassinated
by Anastasius's brother, Eleutherius, whose reputation,
however, suffered but a momentary eclipse.  Adrian died in 872.

ADRIAN III., pope, was born at Rome.  He succeeded Martin
II. in 884, and died in 885, on a journey to Worms. (L. D.*)

ADRIAN IV. (Nicholas Breakspear), pope from 1154 to
1159, the only Englishman who has occupied the papal chair,
was born before A.D. 1100 at Langley near St Albans in
Hertfordshire, His father was Robert, a priest of the diocese
of Bath, who entered a monastery and left the boy to his own
resources.  Nicholas went to Paris and finally became a monk
of the cloister of St Rufus near Arles.  He rose to be prior
and in 1137 was unanimously elected abbot.  His reforming
zeal led to the lodging of complaints against him at Rome;
but these merely attracted to him the favourable attention
of Eugenius III., who created him cardinal bishop of Albano.
From 1152 to 1154 Nlicholas was in Scandinavia as legate,
organizing the affairs of the new Norwegian archbishopric of
Trondhjem, and making arrangements which resulted in the
recognition of Upsala as seat of the Swedish metropolitan in
1164.  As a compensation for territory thus withdrawn the
Danish archbishop of Lund was made legate and perpetual
vicar and given the title of primate of Denmark and Sweden.
On his return Nicholas was received with great honour by
Anastasius IV., and on the death of the latter was elected
pope on the 4th of December 1154.  He at once endeavoured
to compass the overthrow of Arnold of Brescia, the leader
of anti-papal sentiment in Rome.  Disorders ending with the
murder of a cardinal led Adrian shortly before Palm Sunday
1155 to take the previously-unheard-of step of putting
Rome under the interdict.  The senate thereupon exiled
Arnold, and the pope, with the impolitic co-operation of
Frederick I. Barbarossa, was instrumental in procuring his
execution.  Adrian crowned the emperor at St Peter's on the
18th of June 1155, a ceremony which so incensed the Romans
that the pope had to leave the city promptly, not returning
till November 1156.  With the aid of dissatisfied barons,
Adrian brought William I. of Sicily into dire straits; but
a change in the fortunes of war led to a settlement (June
1156) not advantageous to the papacy and displeasing to the
emperor.  At the diet of Besancon in October 1157, the
legates presented to Barbarossa a letter from Adrian which
alluded to the beneficia conferred upon the emperor, and the
German chancellor translated this beneficia in the feudal
sense.  In the storm which ensued the legates were glad to
escape with their lives, and the incident at length closed
with a letter from the pope, declaring that by beneficium
he meant merely bonum factum. The breach subsequently
became wider, and Adrian was about to excommunicate the
emperor when he died at Anagnia on the 1st of September
1159.  A controversy exists concerning an embassy sent by
Henry II. of England to Adrian in 1155.  According to the
elaborate investigation of Thatcher, the facts seem to be as
follows.  Henry asked for permission to invade and subjugate
Ireland, in order to gain absolute ownership of that isle.
Unwilling to grant a request counter to the papal claim
(based on the forged Donation of Constantine) to dominion
over the islands of the sea, Adrian made Henry a conciliatory
proposal, namely, that the king should become hereditary
feudal possessor of Ireland while recognizing the pope as
overlord.  This compromise did not satisfy Henry, so the matter
dropped; Henry's subsequent title to Ireland rested on conquest,
not on papal concession, and was therefore absolute.  The
much-discussed bull Laudabiliter is, however, not genuine.
See Herzog-Hauck, Realencyklopadie, 3rd ed. (excellent
bibliography), and Wetzer and Welte, Kirchenlexikon, 2nd
ed., under ``Hadrian IV.''; also Oliver J. Thatcher, Studies
concerning Adriani IV`. (The University of Chicago: Decennial
Publications, 1st series, vol. iv., Chicago, 1903); R. Raby,
Pope Adrian IV.: An Historical Sketch (London, 1849); and
A. H.Tarleton, Life of Nicholas Breakspear (London, 1896)

ADRIAN V. (Ottobuono de' Fieschi), pope in 1276, was a Genoese
who was created cardinal deacon by his uncle Innocent IV.
In 1264 he was sent to England to mediate between Henry III.
and his barons.  He was elected pope to succeed Innocent V.
on the 11th of July 1276, but died at Viterbo on the 18th of
August, without having been ordained even to the priesthood.

ADRIAN VI. (Adrian Dedel, not Boyens, probably not Rodenburgh,
1459-1523), pope from 1522 to 1523, was born at Utrecht in
March 1459, and studied under the Brethren of the Common
Life either at Zwolle or Deventer.  At Louvain he pursued
philosophy, theology and canon law, becoming a doctor of
theology (1491), dean of St Peter's and vice-chancellor of the
university.  In 1507 he was appointed tutor to the seven-year
old Charles V. He was sent to Spain in 1515 on a very important
diplomatic errand; Charles secured his succession to the see
of Tortosa, and on the 14th of November 1516 commissioned him
inquisitor-general of Aragon.  During the minority of Charles,
Adrian was associated with Cardinal Jimenes in governing
Spain.  After the death of the latter Adrian was appointed, on
the 14th of March 1518, general of the reunited inquisitions
of Castile and Aragon, in which capacity he acted till his
departure from Tarragona for Rome on the 4th of August 1522: he
was, however, too weak and confiding to cope with abuses which
Jimenes had been able in some degree to check.  When Charles
left for the Netherlands in 1520 he made Adrian regent of Spain:
as such he had to cope with a very serious revolt.  In 1517
Leo X. had created him cardinal priest SS. Ioannis et Pauli;
on the 9th of January 1522 he was almost unanimously elected
pope.  Crowned in St Peter's on the 31st of August at the
age of sixty-three, he entered upon the lonely path of the
reformer.  His programme was to attack notorious abuses one
by one; but in his attempt to improve the system of granting
indulgences he was hampered by his cardinals; and reducing
the number of matrimonial dispensations was impossible, for
the income had been farmed out for years in advance by Leo X.
The Italians saw in him a pedantic foreign professor, blind
to the beauty of classical antiquity, penuriously docking the
stipends of great artists.  As a peacemaker among Christian
princes, whom he hoped to unite in a protective war against
the Turk, he was a failure: in August 1523 he was forced
openly to ally himself with the Empire, England, Venice,
&c., against France; meanwhile in 1522 the sultan Suleiman
I. had conquered Rhodes.  In dealing with the early stages
of the Protestant revolt in Germany Adrian did not fully
recognize the gravity of the situation.  At the diet which
opened in December 1522 at Nuremberg he was represented by
Chieregati, whose instructions contain the frank admission
that the whole disorder of the church had perchance proceeded
from the Curia itself, and that there the reform should
begin.  However, the former professor and inquisitor-general
was stoutly opposed to doctrinal changes, and demanded that
Luther be punished for heresy.  The statement in one of his
works that the pope could err in matters of faith (``haeresim
per suam determinationem aut Decretalem assurondo'') has
attracted attention; but as it is a private opinion, not
an ex cathedra pronouncement, it is held not to prejudice
the dogma of papal infallibility.  On the 14th of September
1523 he died, after a pontificate too short to be effective.

Most of Adrian VI's official papers disappeared soon after his
death.  He published Quaestiones in quartum sententiarum
praesertim circa sacrementa (Paris, 1512, 1516, 1518,
1537; Rome, 1522), and Quaestiones quodlibeticae XII. (1st
ed., Louvain, 1515).  See L. Pastor, in Geschichte der
Papste, vol. iv. pt. ii.; Adrian VI und Klemens VII.
(Freiburg, 1907); also Wetzer and Welte, Kirchenlexikon,
2nd ed., and Herzog-Hauck, Realencyklopadie, 3rd ed.,
under ``Hadrian VI.''; H. Hurter, Nomenclator literarius
recentioris theologiae catholicae, tom. iv. (Innsbruck.
1899), 1027; The Cambridge Modern History, vol. ii.
(1904), 19-21; H. C. Lea, A History of the Inquisition of
Spain, vol. i. (1906); Janus, The Pope and the Council,
2nd ed. (London, 1869), 376. Biographies--A.  Lepitre,
Adrien VI. (Paris, 1880); C. A. C. von Hofler, Papst
Adrian VI. (Vienna, 1880); L. Casartelli, ``The Dutch
Pope,'' in Miscellaneous Essays (London, 1906). (W. W. R.*)

ADRIAN, SAINT, one of the praetorian guards of the emperor
Galerius Maximian, who, becoming a convert to Christianity, was
martyred at Nicomedia on the 4th of March 303. It is said that
while presiding over the torture of a band of Christians he
was so amazed at their courage that he publicly confessed his
faith.  He was imprisoned, and the next day his limbs were
struck off on an anvil, and he was then beheaded, dying in
his wife's, St Natalia's, arms.  St Adrian's festival, with
that of his wife, is kept on the 8th of September.  He is
specially a patron of soldiers, and is much reverenced in
Flanders, Germany and the north of France.  He is usually
represented armed, with an anvil in his hands or at his feet.

ADRIAN, a city and the county-seat of Lenawee county,
Michigan, U.S.A., on the S. branch of Raisin river, near the
S.E. corner of the state.  Pop.(1890) 8736; (1900) 9654, of
whom 1186 were foreign-born: (1910 census) 10,763.  It is
served by five branches of the Lake Shore railway system, and
by the Wabash, the Toledo and Western, and the Toledo, Detroit
and Ironton railways.  Adrian is the seat of Adrian College
(1859; co-educational), controlled by the Wesleyan Methodist
Church in 1859-1867 and since 1867 by the Methodist Protestant
Church, and having departments of literature, theology, music,
fine arts, commerce and pedagogy, and a preparatory school;
and of St Joseph's Academy (Roman Catholic) for girls; and 1
m. north of the city is the State Industrial Home for Girls
(1879), for the reformation of juvenile offenders between the
ages of ten and seventeen.  Adrian has a public library.  The
city is situated in a rich farming region; is an important
shipping point for livestock, grain and other farm products;
and is especially known as a centre for the manufacture of
wire-fences.  Among the other manufactories are flouring
and grist mills, planing mills, foundries, and factories for
making agricultural implements, United States mail boxes,
furniture, pianos, organs, automobiles, toys and electrical
supplies.  The value of the city's factory products increased
from $2,124,923 in 1900 to $4,897,426 in 1904, or 130.5%;
of the total value in 1904, $2,849,648 was the value of
wire-work.  The place was laid out as a town in 1828, and
according to tradition was named in honour of the Roman emperor
Hadrian.  It was incorporated as a village in 1836, was made
the county-seat in 1838 and was chartered as a city in 1853.

ADRIANI, GIOVANNI BATTISTA (1513-1579), Italian historian,
was born of a patrician family of Florence, and was secretary
to the republic of Florence.  He was among the defenders of
the city during the siege of 1530, but subsequently joined the
Medici party and was appointed professor of rhetoric at the
university.  At the instance of Cosimo I. he wrote a history
of his own times, from 1536 to 1574, in Italian, which is
generally, but according to Brunet erroneously, considered a
continuation of Guicciardini.  De Thou acknowledges himself
greatly indebted to this history, praising it especially for its
accuracy.  Adriani composed funeral orations in Latin on the
emperor Charles V. and other noble personages, and was the
author of a long letter on ancient painters and sculptors
prefixed to the third volume of Vasari.  His Istoria dei
suoi tempi was published in Florence in 1583; a new edition
appeared also in Florence in 1872.  See G. M. Mazzucchelli,
Gli Scrittori d' Italia, i. p. 151 (Brescia, 1753).

ADRIANOPLE, a vilayet of European Turkey, corresponding with
part of the ancient Thrace, and bounded on the N. by Bulgaria
(Eastern Rumeha), E. by the Black Sea and the vilayet of
Constantinople, S. by the Sea of Marmora and the Aegean Sea and
W. by Macedonia.  Pop. (1905) about 1,000,000; area, 15,000 sq.
m.  The surface of the vilayet is generally mountainous,
except in the central valley of the Maritza, and along the
banks of its tributaries, the Tunja, Arda, Ergene, &c. On the
west, the great Rhodope range and its outlying ridges extend
as far as the Maritza, and attain an altitude of more than 7000
ft. in the summits of the Kushlar Dagh, Karluk Dagh and the
Balkan.  Towards the Black Sea, the less elevated Istranja
Dagh stretches from north-west to south-east; and the entire
south coast, which includes the promontory of Gallipoli and
the western shore of the Dardanelles, is everywhere hilly or
mountainous, except near the estuaries of the Maritza, and
of the Mesta, a western frontier stream.  The climate is
mild and the soil fertile; but political disturbances and
the conservative character of the people tend to thwart the
progress of agriculture and other industries.  The vilayet
suffered severely during the Russian occupation of 1878,
when, apart from the natural dislocation of commerce, many
of the Moslem cultivators emigrated to Asia Minor, to be
free from their alien rulers.  Through the resultant scarcity
of labour, much land fell out of cultivation.  This was
partially remedied after the Bulgarian annexation of Eastern
Rumella, in 1885, had driven the Moslems of that country to
emigrate in like manner to Adrianople; but the advantage was
counterbalanced by the establishment of hostile Bulgarian
tariffs.  The important silk industry, however, began to
revive about 1890, and dairy farming is prosperous; but the
condition of the vilayet is far less unsettled than that of
Macedonia, owing partly to the preponderance of Moslems among
the peasantry, and partly to the nearness of Constantinople,
with its Western influences.  The main railway from Belgrade
to Constantinople skirts the Maritza and Ergene valleys, and
there is an important branch line down the Maritza valley to
Dedeagatch, and thence coastwise to Salonica.  After the city
of Adrianople (pop. 1905, about 80,000), which is the capital,
the principal towns are Rodosto (35,000), Gallipoli (25,000),
Kirk-Kilisseh (16,000), Xanthi (14,000), Chorlu (11,500), Demotica
(10,000), Enos (8000), Gumuljina (8000) and Dedeagatch (3000).

ADRIANOPLE (anc. Hadrianopolis; Turk. Edirne, or
Edreneh; Slav. Odrin), the capital of the vilayet of
Adrianople, Turkey in Europe; 137 m. by rail W.N.W. of
Constantinople.  Pop. (1905) about 80,000, of whom half are
Turks, and half Jews, Greeks, Bulgars, Armenians, &c. Adrianople
ranks, after Constantinople and Salonica, third in size and
importance among the cities of European Turkey.  It is the see
of a Greek archbishop, and of one Armenian and two Bulgarian
bishops.  It is the chief fortress near the Bulgarian frontier,
being defended by a ring of powerful modern forts.  It occupies
both banks of the river Tunja, at its confluence with the
Maritza, which is navigable to this point in spring and
winter.  The nearest seaport by rail is Dedeagatch, west
of the Maritza; Enos, at the river-mouth, is the nearest by
water.  Adrianople is on the railway from Belgrade and
Sofia to Constantinople and Salonica.  In appearance it is
thoroughly Oriental--a mass of mean, irregular wooden buildings,
threaded by narrow tortuous streets, . with a few better
buildings.  Of these the most important are the Idadieh
school, the school of arts and crafts, the Jewish communal
school; the Greek college, Zappeion; the Imperial Ottoman
Bank and Tobacco Regie; a fire-tower; a theatre; palaces
for the prefect of the city, the administrative staff of
the second army corps and the defence works commission; a
handsome row of barracks; a military hospital; and a French
hospital.  Of earlier buildings, the most distinguished are
the Eski Serai, an ancient and half-ruined palace of the
sultans; the bazaar of Ali Pasha; and the 16th-century mosque
of the sultan Selim II., a magnificent specimen of Turkish
architecture.  Adrianople has five suburbs, of which
Kiretchhane and Yilderim are on the left bank of the Maritza,
and Kirjikstands on a hill overlooking the city.  The two
last named are exclusively Greek, but a large proportion
of the inhabitants of Kiretchhane are Bulgarian.  These
three suburbs---as well as the little hamlet of Demirtash,
containing about 300 houses all occupied by Bulgars---are all
built in the native fashion; but the fifth suburb, Karagatch,
which is on the right bank of the Maritza, and occupies the
region between the railway station and the city, is Western
in its design, consisting of detached residences in gardens,
many of them handsome villas, and all of modern European
type.  In all the communities schools have multiplied, but
the new seminaries are of the old non-progressive type.  The
only exception is the Hamidieh school for boys---a government
institution which takes both boarders and day-scholars.
Like the Lyceum of Galata Serai in Constantinople, it has
two sets of professors, Turkish and French, and a full course
of education in each language, the pupils following both
courses.  The several communities have each their own
charitable institutions, the Jews being socially well endowed
in this respect, The Greeks have a literary society, and
there is a well-organized club to which members of all the
native communities, as well as many foreigners, belong.

The economic condition of Adrianople was much impaired by
the war of 1877-78, and was just showing signs of recovery
when, in 1885, the severance from it of Eastern Rumelia by
a Customs cordon rendered the situation more than ever.
Adrianople had previously been the commercial headquarters
of all Thrace, and of a large portion of the region between
the Balkans and the Danube, now Bulgaria.  But the separation
of Eastern Rumeha isolated Adrianople, and transferred to
Philippopolis at least two-thirds of its foreign trade which,
as regards sea-borne merchandise, is carried on through the
port of Burgas (q.v.). The city manufactures silk, leather,
tapestry, woollens, linen and cotton, and has an active general
trade.  Besides fruits and agricultural produce, its exports
include raw silk, cotton, opium, rose-water, attar of
roses, wax and the dye known as Turkey red.  The surrounding
country is extremely fertile, and its wines are the best
produced in Turkey.  The city is supplied with fresh water
by means of an aqueduct carried by arches over an extensive
valley.  There is also a fine stone bridge over the Tunja.

Adrianople was originally known as Uskadama, Uskudama or
Uskodama, but was renamed and enlarged by the Roman emperor
Hadrian (117-138).  In 378 the Romans were here defeated
by the Goths.  Adrianople was the residence of the Turkish
sultans from 1361, when it was captured by Murad I., until
1453, when Constantinople fell.  It was occupied by the
Russians in 1829 and 1878 (see RUSSO-TURKISH WARS).

ADRIATIC SEA (ancient Adria or Hadria), an arm of the
Mediterranean Sea separating Italy from the Austro-Hungarian,
Montenegrin and Albanian littorals, and the system of the
Apennine mountains from that of the Dinaric Alps and adjacent
ranges.  The name, derived from the town of Adria, belonged
originally only to the upper portion of the sea (Herodotus
vi. 127, vii. 20, ix. 92; Euripides, Hippolytus, 736), but
was gradually extended as the Syracusan colonies gained in
importance.  But even then the Adriatic in the narrower sense
only extended as far as the Mons Garganus, the outer portion
being called the Ionian Sea: the name was sometimes, however,
inaccurately used to include the Gulf of Tarentum, the Sea of
Sicily, the Gulf of Corinth and even the sea between Crete
and Malta (Acts xxvii. 27). The Adriatic extends N.W. from
40 deg.  to 45 deg.  45' N., with an extreme length of nearly 500
m., and a mean breadth of about 110 m., but the Strait of
Otranto, through which it connects at the south with the
Ionian Sea, is only 45 m. wide.  Moreover, the chain of
islands which fringes the northern part of the eastern shore
reduces the extreme breadth of open sea in this part to 90
m.  The Italian shore is generally low, merging, in the
north-west, into the marshes and lagoons on either hand
of the protruding delta of the river Po, the sediment of
which has pushed forward the coast-line for several miles
within historic times.  On islands within one of the lagoons
opening from the Gulf of Venice, the city of that name has
its unique situation.  The east coast is generally bold and
rocky.  South of the Istrian peninsula, which separates the
Gulfs of Venice and Trieste from the Strait of Quarnero,
the island-fringe of the east coast extends as far south as
Ragusa.  The islands, which are long and narrow (the long axis
lying parallel with the coast of the mainland), rise rather
abruptly to elevations of a few hundred feet, while on the
mainland, notably in the magnificent inlet of the Bocche di
Cattaro, lofty mountains often fall directly to the sea.  This
coast, though beautiful, is somewhat sombre, the prevalent
colour of the rocks, a light, dead grey, contrasting harshly
with the dark vegetation, which on some of the islands is
luxuriant.  The north part of the sea is very shallow, and
between the southern promontory of Istria and Rimini the depth
rarely exceeds 25 fathoms.  Between Sebenico and Ortona a
well-marked depression occurs, a considerable area of which
exceeds 100 fathoms in depth.  From a point between Curzola
and the north shore of the spur of Monte Gargano there is
a ridge giving shallower water, and a broken chain of a few
islets extends across the sea.  The deepest part of the sea
lies east of Monte Gargano, south of Ragusa, and west of
Durazzo, where a large basin gives depths of 500 fathoms and
upwards, and a small area in the south of this basin falls
below 800. The mean depth of the sea is estimated at 133
fathoms.  The bora (north-east wind), and the prevalence
of sudden squalls from this quarter or the south-east, are
dangers to navigation in winter.  Tidal movement is slight.
(See also MEDITERRANEAN.) For the ``Marriage of the
Adriatic,'' or more properly ``of the sea,'' a ceremony formerly
performed by the doges of Venice, see the article BUCENTAUR.

 ADSCRIPT (from Lat. ad, on or to, and scribere, to write),
something written ajier, as opposed to ``subscript,'' which
means written under. A labourer was called an ``adscript
of the soil'' (adscriptus glebae) when he could be sold or
transferred with it, as in feudal days, and as in Russia until
1861.  Carlyle speaks of the Java blacks as a kind of adscripts.

ADULLAM, a Canaanitish town in the territory of the tribe
of Judah, perhaps the modern Aid-el-Ma, 7 m.  N.E. of
Beit-Jibrin.  It was in the stronghold (``cave'' is a scribal
error) of this town that David took refuge on two occasions
(1 Sam. xxii. 1; 2 Sam. v. 17). The tradition that Adullam
is in the great cave of Rhareitun (St Chariton) is probably
due to the crusaders.  From the description of Adullam as the
resort of ``every one that was in distress,'' or ``in debt,''
or ``discontented,'' it has often been humorously alluded
to, notably by Sir Walter Scott, who puts the expression into
the mouth of the Baron of Bradwardine in Waverley, chap.
lvii., and also of Balfour of Burley in Old Mortality. In
modern political history the expression ``cave of Adullam''
(hence ``Adullamites'') came into common use (being first
employed in a speech by John Bright on the 13th of March
1866) with regard to the independent attitude of Robert
Howe (Lord Sherbrooke), Edward Horsman and their Liberal
supporters in opposition to the Reform Bill of 1866.  But
others had previously used it in a similar connexion, e.g.
President Lincoln in his second electoral campaign (1864),
and the Tories in allusion to the Whig remnant who joined
C. J. Fox in his temporary secession.  From the same usage
is derived the shorter political term ``cave'' for any body
of men who secede from their party on some special subject.

ADULTERATION (from Lat. adulterare, to defile or falsify),
the act of debasing a commercial commodity with the object
of passing it off as or under the name of a pure or genuine
commodity for illegitimate profit, or the substitution of an
inferior article for a superior one, to the detriment of the
purchaser.  Although the term is mainly used in connexion
with the falsification of articles of food, drink or
drugs, and is so dealt with in this article, the practice
of adulteration extends to almost all manufactured products
and even to unmanufactured natural substances, and (as was
once suggested by (John Bright) is an almost inseparable
--though none the less reprehensible---phase of keen trade
competition.  In its crudest forms as old as commerce
itself, it has progressed with the growth of knowledge and
of science, and is, in its most modern developments, almost
a branch--and that not the least vigorous one---of applied
science.  From the mere concealment of a piece of metal or a
stone in a loaf of bread or in a lump of butter, a bullet in
a musk baa or in a piece of opium, it has developed into the
use of aniline dyes, of antiseptic chemicals, of synthetic
sweetening agents in foods, the manufacture of butter from
cocoa-nuts, of lard from cotton-seed and of pepper from olive
stones.  Its growth and development has necessitated the
employment of multitudes of scientific officers charged with its
detection and the passing of numerous laws for its repression and
punishment.  While for all common forms of fraud the common
law is in most cases considered strong enough, special laws
against the adulteration of food have been found necessary
in all civilized countries.  A vigorous branch of chemical
literature deals with it; there exist scientific societies
specially devoted to its study; laboratories are maintained
by governments with staffs of highly trained chemists for
its detection; and yet it not only develops and flourishes,
but becomes more general, if less virulent and dangerous to
health.  There are numerous references to adulteration in the
classics.  The detection of the base metal by Archimedes in
Hiero's crown, by the light specific gravity of the latter, is
a well-known instance.  Vitruvius speaks of the adulteration
of minium with lime, Dioscorides of that of opium with other
plant juices and with gum, Pliny of that of flour with white
clay.  Both in Rome and in Athens wine was often adulterated
with colours and flavouring agents, and inspectors were
charged with looking after it.  In England, so far hack as the
reign of John (1203), a proclamation was made throughout the
kingdom, enforcing the legal obligations of assize as regards
bread; and in the following reign the statute (51 Hen. III.
Stat. 6) entitled ``the pillory and tumbrel'' was framed
for the express purpose of protecting the public from the
dishonest dealings of bakers, vintners, brewers, butchers and
others.  This statute is the first in which the adulteration
of human food is specially noticed and prohibited; it seems
to have been enforced with more or less rigour until the
time of Anne, when it was repealed (1709).  According to the
hiber Albus it was strictly observed in the days of Edward
I., for it states that: ``If any default shall be found in
the bread of a baker in the city, the first time, let him
be drawn upon a hurdle from the Guildhall to his own house
through the great street where there be most people assembled,
and through the great streets which are most dirty, with
the faulty loaf hanging from his neck; if a second time he
shall be found committing the same offence, let him be drawn
from the Guildhall through the great street of Cheepe in the
manner aforesaid to the pillory, and let him be put upon the
pillory, and remain there at least one hour in the day; and
the third time that such default shall be found, he shall be
drawn, and the oven shall be pulled down, and the baker made
to foreswear the trade in the city for ever.'' The assize
of 1634 provides that ``if there be any manner of person or
persons, which shall by any false wayes or meanes, sell
any meale under the kinge's subjects, either by mixing it
deceitfully or sell any musty or corrupted meal, which may
be to the hurte and infection of man's body, or use any false
weight, or any deceitful wayes or meanes, and so deceive the
subject, for the first offence he shall be grievously punished,
the second he shall loose his meale, for the third offence he
shall suffer the judgment of the pillory and the fourth time
he shall foreswore the town wherein he dwelleth.'' Vintners,
spicers, grocers, butchers, regrators and others were subject
to the like punishment for dishonesty in their commercial
dealings--it being thought that the pillory, by appealing to
the sense of shame, was far more deterrent of such crimes than
fine or imprisonment.  In the reign of Edward the Confessor
a knavish brewer of the city of Chester was taken round the
town in the cart in which the refuse of the privies had been
collected.  Ale-tasters had to look after the ale and test it
by spilling some on to a wooden seat, sitting on the wet place
in their leathern breeches, the stickiness of the ``residue
obtained by evaporation'' affording the evidence of purity or
otherwise.  If sugar had been added the taster adhered to
the bench; pure malt beer was not considered to yield an
adhesive extract.  In 1553, the lord mayor of London ordered
a jury of five or six vintners to rack and draw off the
suspected wine of another vintner, and to ascertain what
drugs or ingredients they found in the said wine or cask
to sophisticate the same.  At another time eight pipes of
wine were ordered to be destroyed because, on racking off,
bundles of weeds, pieces of sulphur match, and ``a kind
of gravel mixture sticking to the casks'' had been found.

Similar records have come down from the continental European
countries.  In 1390 an Augsburg wine-seller was sentenced
to be led out of the city with his hands bound and a rope
round his neck; in 1400 two others were branded and otherwise
severely punished; in 1435 ``were the taverner Christian
Corper and his wife put in a cask in which he sold false
wine, and then exposed in the pillory.  The punishment was
adjudged because they had roasted pears and put them into
new sour wine, in order to sweeten the wine.  Some pears
were hung round their necks like unto a Paternoster.''
In Biebrich on the Rhine, in 1482, a wine-falsifier was
condemned to drink six quarts of his own wine; from this he
died.  In Frankfurt, casks in which false wine had been
found were placed with a red flag on the knacker's cart,
``the jailer marched before, the rabble after; and when they
came to the river they broke the casks and tumbled the stuff
into the stream.'' In France successive ordonnances from
1330 to 1672 forbade the mixing of two wines together under
the penalty of a fine and the confiscation of the wine.

Modern British Legislation.--In modern times the English
parliament has dealt frequently with the subject of food
adulteration.  In 1725 it was provided that ``no dealer in
tea or manufacturer or dyer thereof, or pretending so to
be, shall counterfeit or adulterate tea, or cause or procure
the same to be counterfeited or adulterated, or shall alter,
fabricate or manufacture tea with terra-japonica, or with any
drug or drugs whatsoever; nor shall mix or cause or procure
to be mixed with tea any leaves other than the leaves of
tea or other ingredients whatsoever, on pain of forfeiting
and losing the tea so counterfeited, adulterated, altered,
fabricated, manufactured or mixed, and any other thing or
things whatsoever added thereto, or mixed or used therewith,
and also the sum of L. 100.'' Six years afterwards, in
1730-173i, a further act was passed prescribing a penalty for
``sophisticating'' tea; it recites that several iii-disposed
persons do frequently dye, fabricate or manufacture very great
quantities of sloe leaves, liquorice leaves, and the leaves
of tea that have been before used, or the leaves of other
trees, shrubs or plants in imitation of tea, and do likewise
mix, colour, stain and dye such leaves and likewise tea with
terra-japonica, sugar, molasses, clay, logwood, and with other
ingredients, and do sell and vend the same as true and real
tea, to the prejudice of the health of his majesty's subjects,
the diminution of the revenue and to the ruin of the fair
trader.  This act provides that for every pound of adulterated
tea found in possession of any person, a sum of L. 10 shall be
forfeited.  It was followed by one passed in 1768-1767, which
increased the penalty to imprisonment for not less than six
nor more than twelve months.  As regards coffee, an act of
1718 recited that ``divers evil-disposed persons have at the
time or soon after the roasting of coffee made use of water,
grease, butter or such-like materials, whereby the same is
rendered unwholesome and greatly increased in weight,'' and
a penalty of L. 20 is enacted.  In 1803 an act refers to the
addition of burnt, scorched or roasted peas, beans or other
grains or vegetable substances prepared in imitation of coffee
or cocoa, to coffee or cocoa, and fixes the penalty for the
offence at L. 100, but subsequently permission was given to
coffee or cocoa dealers also to deal in scorched or roasted
corn, peas, beans or parsnips whole and not ground, crushed or
powdered, under certain excise restrictions.  An act passed
in 1816 relating to beer and porter provides that no brewer
of or dealer in or retailer of beer ``shall receive or have
in his possession, or make or mix with any worts or beer,
any liquor, extract or other preparation for the purpose
of darkening the colour of worts or beer, other than brown
malt, ground or unground, or shall have in his possession
or use, or mix with any worts or beer any molasses, honey,
liquorice, vitriol, quassia, coculus-indiae, grains of
paradise, guinea-pepper or opium, or any extracts of these, or
any articles or preparation whatsoever for or as a substitute
for malt or hops.'' Any person contravening was liable to a
penalty of L. 200, and any druggist selling to any brewer or
retail dealer any colouring or malt substitute was to be fined
L. 500.  It was only in 1847 that brewers were allowed to
make for their own use, from sugar, a liquor for darkening
the colour of worts or beer and to use it in brewing.

All the laws hitherto referred to were mainly passed in the
interest of the inland revenue, and their execution was left
entirely in the hands of the revenue officers.  It was but
natural that they should look primarily after the dutiable
articles and not after those that brought no revenue to the
state.  About the middle of the 19th century many articles,
however, paid import duty; butter, for instance, paid 5s.
per hundredweight; cheese from 1s. 6d. to 2s. 6d.; flour
or meal of all kinds, 4 1/2d.; ginger, 10s.; isinglass, 5s.;
and so on.  Sensational and doubtless largely exaggerated
statements were from time to time published concerning the
food supply of the nation.  F. C. Accum (1769-1838) by his
Treatise on Adulterations of Food and Culinary Poisons
(1820), and particularly an anonymous writer of a book
entitled Deadly Adulteration and Slow Poisoning unmasked,
or Disease and Death in the Pot and the Bottle, in which
the blood empoisoning and life-destroying adulterations of
wines, spirits, beer, bread, flour, tea, sugar, spices,
cheesemongery, pastry, confectionery, medicines, etc.,
etc., are laid open to the public (1830), roused the public
attention.  In 1850 a physician, Dr. Arthur H. Hassall,
had the happy idea of looking at ground coffee through the
microscope.  Eminent chemists had previously found great
difficulty in establishing any satisfactory chemical distinction
between coffee, chicory and other adulterants of coffee;
the microscope immediately showed the structural difference
of the particles, however small.  The results of Hassall's
examinations were embodied in a paper which was read before the
Botanical Society of London and was reported in The Times,
1850.  A paper on the microscopic examination of sugar,
showing the presence in that article of innumerable living
mites, followed and attracted much attention.  Hassall was
in consequence commissioned by Thomas Wakley (1795--1862),
the owner of the Lancet, to extend his examination to other
articles of food, and for a period of nearly four years reports
of the Lancet Analytical Sanitary Commission were regularly
published, the names and addresses of hundreds of manufacturers
and tradesmen selling adulterated articles being fearlessly
given.  The responsibility incurred was immense, but the
assertions of the journal were so well founded upon fact that
they were universally accepted as accurately representing
the appalling state of the food supply.  As instances may be
cited, that of thirty-four samples of coffee only three were
pure, chicory being present in thirty-one, roasted corn in
twelve, beans and potato flour each in one; of thirty-four
samples of chicory, fourteen were adulterated with corn,
beans or acorns; of forty-nine samples of bread, every one
contained alum; of fifty-six samples of cocoa, only eight
were pure; of twenty-six milks, fourteen were adulterated; of
twenty-eight cayenne peppers, only four were genuine, thirteen
containing red-lead and one vermilion; of upwards of one
hundred samples of coloured sugar-confectionery, fifty-nine
contained chromate of lead, eleven gamboge, twelve red-lead,
six vermilion, nine arsenite of copper and four white-lead.

Act of 1860.

In consequence of the Lancet's disclosures a parliamentary
committee was appointed in 1855, the labours of which resulted
in 1860 in the Adulteration of Food and Drink Act, the first
act that dealt generally with the adulteration of food.  The
first section of this enacted ``that every person who shall
sell any article of food or drink with which, to the knowledge
of such person, any ingredient or material injurious to the
health of persons eating or drinking such article has been
mixed, and every person who shall sell as pure or unadulterated
any article of food or drink which is adulterated and not
pure, shall for every such offence, on summary conviction,
pay a penalty not exceeding L. 5 with costs.'' In the case of
a second offence the name, place of abode and offence might
be published in the newspapers at the offender's expense.

1872.

As the act, however, left it optional to the district authorities
to appoint analysts or not, and did not provide for the
appointment of any officer upon whom should rest the duty of
obtaining samples or of prosecuting offenders, it virtually
remained a dead letter till 1872, when the Adulteration of
Food and Drugs Act came into force, prescribing a penalty
not exceeding L. 50 for the sale of injurious food and, for a
second offence, imprisonment for six months with hard labour.
Inspectors were empowered to make purchases of samples to be
submitted for analysis, but appointment of analysts was still left
optional.  The definition of an adulterated article given in
that act was essentially that still accepted at the present
time, namely, ``any article of food or drink or any drug mixed
with any other substances, with intent fraudulently to increase
its weight or bulk, without declaration of such admixture
to any purchaser thereof before delivering the same.'' The
adoption of the act was sporadic, and, outside London and a
few large towns, the number of proceedings against offenders
remained exceedingly small.  Nevertheless complaints soon
arose that it inflicted considerable injury and imposed heavy
and undeserved penalties upon some respectable tradesmen,
mainly owing to the ``want of a clear understanding of what
does and does not constitute adulteration,'' and in some cases
to conflicting decisions and the inexperience of analysts.

Again a parliamentary committee was appointed which took a
mass of evidence, the outcome of its inquiries being the Sale
Of Food and Drugs Act 1875, which is in force at the present
day, subject to amendments and additions made at later
dates.  This act avoided the term ``adulteration'' altogether
and endeavoured to give a clearer description of punishable
offences:--Section 6. ``No person shall sell to the purchaser
any article of food or any drug which is not of the nature,
substance and quality of the article demanded by the purchaser
under a penalty not exceeding L. 20; provided that an offence
shall not be deemed to be committed under this section in
the following cases: (1) where any matter or ingredient not
injurious to health has been added to the food or drug because
the same is required for the production or preparation thereof
as an article of commerce, in a state fit for carriage or
consumption, and not fraudulently to increase the bulk, weight
or measure of the food or drug, or conceal the inferior quality
thereof; (2) where the food or drug is a proprietary medicine,
or is the subject of a patent in force and is supplied in
the state required by the specification of the patent; (3)
where the food or drug is compounded as in the act mentioned;
(4) where the food or drug is unavoidably mixed with some
extraneous matter in the process of collection or preparation.''

Section 8. ``No person shall be guilty of any such offence
as aforesaid in respect to the sale of an article of food
or a drug mixed with any matter or ingredient not injurious
to health, and not intended fraudulently to increase its
bulk, weight or measure, or conceal its inferior quality,
if at the time of delivering such article or drug he shall
supply to the person receiving the same a notice, by a label
distinctly and legibly written or printed on or with the
article or drug, to the effect that the same is mixed.''
The act made the appointment of analysts compulsory upon
the city of London, the vestries, county quarter sessions
and town councils or boroughs having a separate police
establishment.  For the protection of the vendor, samples that
had been purchased by the inspectors for analysis were to be
offered to be divided into three parts, one to be submitted
to the analyst, the second to be given to the vendor to be
dealt with by him as he might deem fit, and the third to
be retained by the inspector: and, at the discretion of the
magistrate hearing any summons, to be submitted, in case of
dispute, to the commissioners of inland revenue for analysis
by the chemical laboratory at Somerset House.  The public
analyst had to give a certificate, couched in a prescribed
form, to the person submitting any sample for analysis, which
certificate was to be taken as evidence of the facts therein
stated, in order to render the proceedings as inexpensive as
practicable.  If the defendant in any prosecution could prove
to the satisfaction of the court that he had purchased the
article under a warranty of genuineness, and that he sold it in
the same state as when he purchased it, he was to be discharged
from the prosecution, but no provision was made that in that
event the giver of the warranty should be proceeded against.

1879.

Section 6, quoted above, gave rise to an immense amount of
litigation, and already in 1879 it was found necessary to
pass an amending act, making it clear that if a purchase was
effected by an inspector with the intent to get the' purchased
article analysed, he was as much ``prejudiced'' if obtaining
a sophisticated article as a private purchaser who purchased
for his own use and consumption.  The amending act also dealt
in some small measure with a difficulty which immediately
after passing the act was found to arise in ascertaining
whether any article was ``of the nature, substance and quality
demanded by the purchaser''---``in determining whether an
offence has been committed under section 6 by selling spirits
not adulterated otherwise than by the admixture of water,
it shall be a good defence to prove that such admixture has
not reduced the spirit more than twenty-five degrees under
proof for brandy, whisky or rum, or thirty-five under proof
for gin.'' Almost insuperable difficulties as to the meaning
of ``nature, substance and quality'' subsequently arose as
regards every conceivable food material. its it was obviously
impossible for parliament to define every article, to lay down
limits of composition within which it might vary, to specify
the substances or ingredients that might enter into it, to
limit the proportions of the unavoidable impurities that might
be contained in it, the duty to do all this was left to the
individual analysts.  An enormous number of substances had
to be analysed until sufficient evidence had been accumulated
for the giving of correct opinions or certificates.  Endless
disputes unavoidably arose, friction with manufacturers and
traders, unfortunately also with the referees at the inland
revenue, who for many years were altogether out of touch with the
analysts.  Conflicting decisions come to by various benches
of magistrates upon similar cases, allowing of the legal
sale of an article in one district which in another had been
declared illegal, rendered the position of merchants often
unsatisfactory.  It was not recognized by parliament until almost
a quarter of a century had elapsed that it was not enough to
compel local authorities to get samples analysed, but that it
was also the duty of parliament to lay down specific and clear
instructions that might enable the officers to do their work.
This has only been very partially done even at the present time.

Difficulties of administration.

A curious condition of things arose out of the definition
of ``food'' given in the act of 1875: ``The term food shall
include every article used for food or drink by man, other
than drugs or water.'' It had been the practice of bakers to
add alum to the flour from which bread was manufactured, in
order to whiten the bread, and to permit the use of damaged
and discoloured flour.  This practice had been strongly
condemned by chemists and physicians, because it rendered the
bread indigestible and injurious to health.  Shortly after
the passing of the Food Act this objectionable practice was
stamped out by numerous prosecutions, and alumed bread now
no longer occurs.  A large trade, however, continued to be
carried on in baking powders consisting of alum and sodium
bicarbonate.  It was naturally thought that, as baking powder
is sold with the obvious intention that it may enter into
food, the vendors could also be proceeded against.  The high
court, however, held that, baking powder in itself not being
an article of food, its sale could not be an offence under
the Food Act. This anomaly was removed by a later act.  Under
section 6 of the act of 1875 a defendant could be convicted,
even if he had no guilty knowledge of the fact that the article
he had sold was adulterated.  In the repealed Adulteration
Act of 1872 the words ``to the knowledge of'' were inserted,
and they were found fatal to obtaining convictions.  The
general rule of the law is that the master is not criminally
responsible for the acts of his servants if they are done
without his knowledge or authority, but under the Food Act it
was held (Brown v. Foot, 1892, 66 L.T. 649) that a master
was liable for the watering of milk by one of his servants,
although he had published a warning to them that they would
be dismissed if found doing so.  Milk might be adulterated
during transit on the railway without the knowledge of the
owner or receiver, and yet the vendor was liable to conviction.

When it is brought to the knowledge of a purchaser that
the article sold to him is not of the nature, substance or
quality he demanded, the sale is not to the prejudice of the
purchaser.  The notice may be given verbally or by a label
supplied with the article.  A common law notice may also be
given.  In Sandys v. Small, 1878, 3 Q.B.D. 449, a publican
had displayed a placard within the inn to the effect that
the spirits sold in his establishment were watered.  This
was held, as it were, to contract him out of the Food Act.
Similarly, in the case of butters that had been adulterated
with milk, the vendors, by giving a general notice in the
shop, evaded punishment under the act.  A notice, is,
however, of no avail if given under section 8 of the act,
if the admixture has been made for fraudulent purposes.  In
Liddiart v. Reece, 44 J.P. 233, 1880, an inspector asked
for coffee and received a packet with a label describing it as
a mixture of coffee and chicory.  It was sold at the price of
coffee.  It turned out to be a mixture containing 40% of
chicory.  The high court held that this was an excessive
quantity, and was added for the purpose of fraudulently
increasing the bulk or weight.  In another case, however
(Otter v. Edgley, 1893, 57 J.P. 457), where an inspector
had asked for French coffee and had been supplied with a mixture
containing 60% of chicory, the article being labelled as a
mixture, the high court held that there was no evidence of
fraud, and, in the case of cocoa, a mixture containing as
little as 30% of cocoa and 70% of starch and sugar, the label
stating it to be a mixture, was held to have been legally
sold (Jones v. Jones, 1894, 58 J.P. 653).  In this case
the label notifying the admixture was hidden by a sheet of
opaque white paper, nor had the purchaser's attention been
called to it, but the price of the article was much lower
than that of pure cocoa.  It is seen from these few instances,
taken at random out of scores, that this clause of the act
was far from clear and was very variously interpreted at the
courts.  The warranty clause (clause 25) also gave rise to
an immense amount of litigation.  In the earlier high court
decisions a very narrow interpretation was given to the
term ``written warranty,'' but in later years a wider view
prevailed.  A general contract to supply a pure article
is not a sufficient warranty unless with every delivery
there is something to identify the delivery as part of the
contract.  An invoice containing merely a description of an
article as ``lard'' or ``pepper'' is not a warranty; but if
there be added the words ``guaranteed pure'' it is a sufficient
warranty.  A label upon an article is not in itself a warranty,
but a label bearing the words ``pure'' or ``unadulterated,''
coupled with an invoice which could be identified with the
label, together were held to form an effective warranty.

As many thousands of samples were annually submitted by
inspectors under the act to the analysts who had been
appointed in 237 boroughs and districts, a very large number
of cases led to disputes of law or fact, about seventy
high court cases being decided within eighteen years of
the passing of the act.  While these cases related to a
variety of different articles and conditions, dairy produce,
namely milk and butter, led to the greatest amount of
litigation.  It may seem to be a simple matter to ascertain
whether a vendor of milk supplies his customer with milk of
the ``nature, substance and quality demanded,'' but milk is
subject to great variations in composition owing to a large
number of circumstances which will be considered below.

Margerine Act.

Not many years after the passing of the Food Act of 1875 the
sale of butter substitutes assumed very large proportions, and
so seriously prejudiced dairy-farmers that, as regards these,
an act was passed which was not exactly an amendment of the
Sale of Food and Drugs Act, although it embodied a good many
provisions of that act.  It was called the Margarine Act 1887.
It provided that every package of articles made in imitation of
butter should be labelled ``margarine'' in letters 1 1/2 inches
square.  The vendor, however, was protected if he could show
a warranty or invoice, whereas in the Sale of Food and Drugs
Act he was not protected by invoice merely.  Inspectors might
take samples of ``any butter or substitute purporting to be
butter'' without going through the form of purchase.  The
maximum penalty was raised from L. 20 as provided by the Food
Act, to L. 50 in the case of a first and to L. 100 in the case
of repeated conviction.  The Margarine Act is the first statute
that makes reference to and sanctions the use of preservatives,
concerning which a good deal will have to be said farther on.

Select committee, 1894.

In the course of twenty years of administration of the Food
Acts so many difficulties had arisen in reference to the
various points referred to, that in 1894 a select committee
was appointed to inquire into the working of the various acts
and to report whether any, and if so what, amendments were
desirable.  During three sessions the committee sat and
took voluminous evidence.  They reported that where the acts
had been well administered they had been most beneficial in
diminishing adulteration offences.  Forms of adulteration
which were common prior to the passing of the 1875 act, such
as the introouction of alum into bread and the colouring of
confectionery with poisonous material, had almost entirely
disappeared.  A close connexion had been shown to exist
between the extent of adulteration and the number of articles
submitted for analysis under the acts, the proportion of
adulterated samples being found to diminish as the number of
samples taken relatively to the population increased.  Thus, in
1890, in Somersetshire one sample had been analysed for every
379 persons, the percentage of adulterated samples in those
taken for analysis being as low as 3.6; in Gloucestershire
one to 770 persons with 6.2 of adulteration; in Bedfordshire
one to 821 with 7.1; in Derbyshire one to 3164 with 17.1%,
and in Oxford one sample to 14,963 inhabitants with no less
than 41.7% of adulterated samples.  The number of samples
of articles annually submitted to analysis, according
to the returns obtained by the Local Government Board,
steadily increased from the commencement onward.  Whereas
in 1877, 14,706 samples, and in 1883, 19,648 samples were
analysed, in 1904-1905 the number was no less than 84,678,
or an average of one sample to 384 inhabitants for the whole
country.  In the five years 1877--1881 the proportion found
adulterated was 16.2%; in the following five years ending with
1886, the percentage was 13.9; in the five years ending 1891,
the percentage was 11.7; and in the year 1904 the percentage
was only 8.5. The select committee found that wide local
differences in the administration of the acts existed, and
that in many parts of the country the local authorities had
failed to exercise their powers.  In one metropolitan district,
eight members of the local authority had been convicted of
offences under the acts, upon evidence obtained by their own
inspector.  The result was that the duties of the inspector
of the acts were afterwards controlled by a committee of that
local authority, who decided the cases in which prosecutions
should be.undertaken, and the administration of the acts was
``little better than a farce.'' No power existed to compel
local authorities to carry out the acts.  The committee came
to the conclusion that in many cases the responsibility for the
adulteration of articles of food did not rest with the retailer
but with the wholesale dealer or manufacturer; that the law
punished petty offences and left great ones untouched; that
it fined a small retailer and left the wholesale offender scot
free.  As regards warranty, they thought that the precedent
created by the Margarine Act should be followed generally, and
that invoices and equivalent documents should have the force of
warranties.  They found that a considerable proportion of the
food imports were adulterated, out of 890 samples of butter
taken by the customs in 1895 no less than 106 being impure,
and they recommended that in addition to tea, which by section
30 of the act of 1875 was to be systematically analysed by
the customs, prior to being passed for distribution, samples
of all food imports should be taken and examined by the
customs.  The committee further found that the penalties
imposed under the acts had for the most part been trifling and
quite insufficient to serve as deterrents, the profits derived
from the sale of adulterated articles being out of proportion
great to the insignificant fines imposed, and they recommended
that for the second offence the penalty of L. 5 should be
the minimum one, and that in respect to third or subsequent
offences imprisonment without the option of a fine might be
inflicted.  The important question of food standards was
considered at great length.  The absence of legal standards
or definitions of articles of food had occasioned great
difficulty in numerous cases, but as no authority was provided
by the existing acts that might fix such standards, they
recommended the formation of a scientific authority or court
of reference composed of representatives of the laboratory of
the Inland Revenue, of the Local Government Board, the Board
of Agriculture, the General Medical Council, the Institute of
Chemistry, the Pharmaceutical Society, of other scientific
men and of the trading and manufacturing community, who
should have the duty of fixing standards of quality and
purity of food to be confirmed by a secretary of state.

The committee's deliberations and recommendations resulted
in the Sale of Food and Drugs Act 1899.  This unfortunately
was not a comprehensive act superseding the previous acts,
but was an additional and amending one, so that at the
present time four food acts run parallel and are together in
force, rendering the subject from a legal point of view one
of extreme complexity.  In this act the growing influence
of the Board of Agriculture and the desire to assist farmers
and dairymen more decisively than previously are clearly
apparent.  Section 1 empowers the customs to take samples of
consignments of imported articles of food and enjoins them
to communicate to the Board of Agriculture the names of the
importers of adulterated goods, any article of food to be
considered adulterated or impoverished if it has been mixed
with any other substance (other than preservative or colouring
matter, of such a nature and such a quantity as not to render
the article injurious to health), or if any part of it has been
abstracted to the detriment of the article.  Margarine or cheese
containing margarine has to be conspicuously marked as such;
condensed, separated or skim milk has to be clearly labelled
``machine-skimmed milk'' or ``skimmed milk,'' as the case may
be.  The next sections give to the Local Government Board
and the Board of Agriculture a roving commission to see that
the acts are properly enforced throughout the kingdom so as
to apply the acts more equally throughout the country than
heretofore, and in default of local authorities carrying out
their duties empower the government departments mentioned
to execute and enforce the acts at the expense of the local
authorities.  The importance of a regular and conscientious
control of the public food supply by the local authorities
was thus for the first time, after forty years of experimental
legislation, fully acknowledged.  In recognition of the great
difficulties experienced for many years by analysts in their
endeavour to fix minimum percentages for the fat and other milk
constituents, and their inability to do so without statutory
powers, the Board of Agriculture is authorized by section 4
to make regulations ``for determining what deficiency in any
of the normal constituents of genuine milk, cream, butter or
cheese, or what addition of extraneous matter or proportion of
water'' in any of these materials shall raise a presumption,
until the contrary is proved, that these articles are not
genuine.  In pursuance of these powers the Board of Agriculture
did in 1901 issue their milk regulations, adopting officially
the minima agreed upon by public analysts, and in 1902 the
sale of butter regulations, which fixed 16% as the maximum
of water that might be contained in butter.  It is important
to note that the fact of a sample of milk falling short of
the standard is not conclusive evidence of adulteration,
but it justifies the institution of proceedings and casts
the onus of proving that the sample is genuine upon the
defendant.  The Margarine Act of 1887 was extended to margarine
cheese, the obligatory labelling of margarine packages was
more precisely regulated, margarine manufacturers and dealers
in that article were compelled to keep a register open to
inspection by the Board of Agriculture, showing the quantity
and designation of each consignment, and power was given
to officers of the board to enter at all reasonable times
manufactories of margarine and margarine cheese.  The amount
of butter-fat that might be present in margarine was limited
to 10%, while under the Margarine Act of 1887 an unlimited
admixture might have been made, provided that the mixture,
no matter how large the percentage of butter, was sold as
margarine.  As is further explained below, the difficulty
of distinguishing without chemical aid between pure butter
and margarine containing a considerable percentage of butter
is very great, and fraudulent sales continued to be common
after the passing of the Margarine Act. The labelling section
of the Food Act 1875 (sec.  8), which had been systematically
circumvented, was modified, a label being no longer recognized
as distinctly and legibly written or printed, unless it is
so written or printed that the notice of mixture given by the
label is not obscured by other matter on the label, though
labels that had been continuously in use for at least seven
years before the commencement of the act were not interfered
with.  In consequence of the admitted unfairness of asking
for a portion of the contents of a properly labelled tin
or package and then instituting proceedings because no
declaration of admixture had been made, it was enacted that
no person shall be required to sell any article exposed for
sale in an unopened tin or packet, except in the unopened
tin or packet in which it is contained.  This removed a
grievance which had long been felt both by retailers and
manufacturers, and is a provision of growing importance
with the continually increasing sale of articles put up in
factories.  The warranty provisions, which, as before stated,
had given rise to much litigation, were more clearly defined.
A notice that a defendant would rely for his defence upon a
warranty had to be given within seven days of the service of
the summons or the defence would not be available, and the
warrantor was empowered to appear at the hearing and to give
evidence so that no man's name could, as sometimes previously
happened, be dragged into a case without due notice to
him.  A warranty or invoice given by a person resident outside
the United Kingdom was no longer recognized as a defence,
unless the defendant could prove that he had taken reasonable
steps to ascertain and did in fact believe in the accuracy
of the statement contained in the warranty.  This prevented
collusion between a foreign shipper and an importer; and,
lastly, the definition of ``food'' was widened (in view of
the baking-powder decision) so that the term food ``shall
include every article used for food or drink by man, other
than drugs or water, and any article which ordinarily enters
into or is used in the composition or preparation of human
food, and shall also include flavoring matters and condiments.''

The act of 1899 embodies, with one exception, the most
important recommendations of the Food Products Committee,
the exception being the omission of instituting a board of
reference that might deal with difficulties as they arose,
guide analysts and public authorities in fixing limits for
articles other than milk and butter, and take up the important
questions of preservatives and colouring matters and such
like.  An occurrence which almost immediately followed
the passing of the act showed in the strongest manner the
necessity of such guiding board--namely, the outbreak of
arsenical poisoning in the Midlands in the latter part of 1900.

Arsenic in foods.

In the month of June 1900 there occurred, mainly in the
Midlands but also in other parts of England and Wales, an
outbreak of an illness variously described as ``alcoholism,''
``peripheral neuritis'' or ``multiple neuritis.'' This
affected about 6000 persons and resulted in about 70
deaths.  It was soon ascertained that the sufferers were all
beer drinkers, and several of them were employees of a local
brewery, the majority of whom had suffered for some months
past.  Although suspicion fell early upon beer, some
considerable time elapsed before Dr E. S. Reynolds of
Manchester discovered arsenic in dangerous proportions in the
beer.  Steps were immediately taken by brewers and sanitary
authorities to ensure that this arsenical beer was withdrawn
from sale, and, as a result, the epidemic came speedily to an
end.  In all instances where this epidemic of sickness had been
traced to particular breweries, the latter had been users of
brewing sugars-glucose and invert sugar--supplied by a single
firm.  The quantity of arsenic detected in specimens of
these brewing sugars was in some cases very large, amounting
to upward of four grains per pound.  The implicated brewing
sugars were found to have become contaminated by arsenic
in course of their manufacture through the use of sulphuric
acid, some specimens of which contained as much as 2.6% of
arsenic.  The acid had been made from highly arsenical iron
pyrites, and as the manufacturers of the glucose had not
specifically contracted with the acid makers for pure acid,
the latter, not knowing for what purpose the acid was to be
used, had felt themselves justified in supplying impure
acid.  A royal commission was appointed in February 1901,
with Lord Kelvin as chairman, to inquire into the matter,
and an enormous amount of attention was naturally given
to it by chemists and medical men.  It was soon found that
arsenic was very widely disseminated in two classes of food
materials, namely, such as had been dried or roasted in gases
resulting from the combustion of coal, and such as had been
more or less chemically manufactured.  All coal contains iron
pyrites, and this mineral again is contaminated with arsenic.

When the coal is burned the fumes are arsenical and part of
the arsenic condenses and deposits.  Malt dried in English malt
kilns was found to be almost invariably arsenical, and there
cannot be a doubt that English beers had for many years past
been thus contaminated.  At the present time coal virtually
free from arsenic is selected for malting, or Newlands'
process, consisting of the admixture with coal of lime which
renders the arsenic non-volatile, is adopted, and malt free
from all but the merest traces of arsenic is manufactured.
Part of the arsenic remains in the coalashes and wherever
these deposit arsenic can be traced.  Sir Edward Frankland
had, many years previously, detected arsenic in the London
atmosphere.  Chicory roasted with coal, steaks and chops
grilled over an open fire, thus obtain a minute arsenical
dosing.  In sugar refineries carbonic acid gas is, at one stage
of the process, passed through the liquor for the purpose of
precipitating lime or strontia.  When this carbonic acid is
derived from coal the sugar often shows traces of arsenic.
When arsenical malt or sugar infusion is fermented, as in
brewing, the yeast precipitates upon itself a considerable
proportion of the impurity, thus partly cleaning the beer,
but all preparations made from yeast-extracts resemble to some
extent meat extracts, with which they are sometimes fraudulently
mixed---are thus exposed to arsenical contamination.  On the
continent of Europe malt is not dried in kilns with direct
access of combustion gases but on floors heated from beneath,
and continental beers therefore have not been found arsenical.
The second class of causes of contamination consists of
chemicals.  The most important chemical product is sulphuric
acid.  This used to be made from brimstone or native volcanic
sulphur, which is virtually free from arsenic.  But since
about 1860 sulphuric acid has been more largely made from
iron or copper pyrites.  Pyrites-acid is always arsenical,
but can, by suitable treatment, be easily freed from that
impurity.  For many purposes acid that has not been purified is
employed.  In the Leblanc process of manufacture the first step
is the conversion of salt into sodium sulphate by sulphuric
acid.  The hydrochloric acid which is formed carries with
it most of the arsenic of the sulphuric acid.  Wherever such
hydrochloric acid is used it introduces arsenic; thus, in
the separation of glycerin from soap lyes, the alkali of the
latter is neutralized with hydrochloric acid and glycerin
is in consequence frequently highly arsenical.  So is the
soda produced in the Leblanc process, and every one of the
numerous soda salts made from soda is liable to receive its
share.  All acids liberated from their salts by sulphuric
acid, such as phosphoric, tartaric, citric, boracic, may be,
and sometimes are, thus contaminated.  All superphosphates,
made by the action of crude sulphuric acid upon bones or
other phosphatic materials, and sulphate of ammonia, made
from gas-liquor and acid, that is to say, two of the most
important manurial materials, are arsenical, and the poison
is thus spread far and wide over meadows and fields, and can
be traced in the soil wherever artificial manures have been
applied.  The crops sometimes take up arsenic to a slight
extent, but happily the plant is more selective than man,
and no serious amount of poison absorption appears to be
possible.  The risk of contamination is, of course, much
greater with substances which, like glucose, are not further
purified by crystallization, but retain whatever impurity
is introduced into them.  Glucose is not only used in beer,
in which by legal enactments it is permitted to be used, but
is also substituted for sugar in a number of food products,
and is liable to carry into them its contamination.  Sugar
confectionery, jams and marmalade, honey, and such like, are
often admixed with glucose.  It is difficult to say in the
present state of the law whether such admixture amounts to
adulteration.  It was clearly made originally for fraudulent
purposes, but usage and high court decisions have gradually
given the practice an air of respectability.  Vinegar of sorts
is also made from a glucose liquor produced by the action
of sulphuric acid upon maize or other starchy material, and
is, in its turn, exposed to arsenic contamination.  There is
hardly a chemical substance which has directly or indirectly
come into contact with sulphuric acid that is not at times
arsenical.  Thus, while artificial colours, now so much used
for the dyeing of food products, are no longer prepared---as
was rosaniline (the parent substance of so many aniline dyes)
at an early stage of its manufacture--with arsenic acid, yet
they are often contaminated indirectly from sulphuric acid.
Furthermore, hardly any metal that results from the smelting
of any ore with coal is free from arsenic, iron in particular,
as employed for pots and pans and implements, being highly
arsenical.  From the iron the many chemical preparations
which contain or are made with the aid of iron salts may be
arsenicated.  The general presence of arsenic from some of
these causes has been known for many years; outbreaks of
arsenical poisoning have been due to it at various times, but
neglect, forgetfulness and human shortsightedness let the
matter go into oblivion, and it is safe to predict, in spite
of all attention which has been given to the subject, of the
panic which was created by the beer-poisoning outbreak, of
the shock and injury caused to manufacturers of many kinds,
and of the watchfulness aroused in officers of health and
analysts, that as long as the production of food materials
or substances that go into food materials is not left to the
care of nature, and as long as man adds the products of his
ingenuity to our food and drink, so long will ``accidents,''
like the Manchester poisoning, from time to time recur.
We now search for arsenic; some other time it is lead, or
antimony, or selenium, that will do the mischief.  Man does
what he can according to his light, but he sees but a little
patch of the sky of knowledge, while the plant or the animal
building up its body from the plant has learned by inheritance
to avoid the assimilation of matters noxious to it.  Strictly
speaking, arsenical poisoning does not belong to the subject of
adulteration.  It is not due to wilfulness but to stupidity,
but it affords a lesson which cannot be taken too much to
heart, that mankind, by relying too much upon ``science''
in feeding, is on a path that is fraught with considerable
danger.  To safeguard consumers, as far as practicable, the
royal commission made important recommendations concerning
amendments of the Food Acts; these, as at present interpreted
and administered, were reported to be unsatisfactory for
the purpose of protecting the consumer against arsenic and
other deleterious substances in food. ``As a rule public
analysts receive samples in order that they may pronounce
upon their genuineness or otherwise, knowing nothing of the
local circumstances which led to their being taken, of their
origin or the reasons for sending them.  The term `genuine'
in this sense means that the analyst has not detected such
objectionable substances as he has considered it necessary
to look for in the sample submitted to him.  Obviously, the
value of the statement that the sample is `genuine' depends
upon the extent to which the analyst has means of knowing
what are the objectionable substances which it is liable to
contain.  In present circumstances he has not sufficient
information on this point.'' It was also pointed out that the
application of the Food Acts to prevention of contamination
of foods by deleterious substances was materially hindered
by want of an official authority with the duty of dealing
with the various medical, chemical and technical questions
involved, and that the absence of official standards militated
against the efficiency of the existing acts.  The commission
advised that a special officer be appointed by the Local
Government Board to obtain by inquiries from various sources,
such information as would enable the board to direct the work
of local authorities in securing greater purity of food; and
they further recommended that the board or court of reference,
which had been advised by the Committee on Food Products
Adulteration, should be established.  Pending the establishment
of official standards in respect of arsenic under the Food
Acts, they were of opinion that penalties should be imposed
upon any vendor of beer or any other liquid food, or of any
liquor entering into the composition of food, if that liquid
be shown by adequate test to contain one-hundredth of a grain
or more of arsenic in the gallon, and with regard to solid
food, no matter whether it be consumed habitually in large or
small quantities, or whether it be taken by itself (like golden
syrup), or mixed with water or other substances (like chicory
or yeast extract)--if the substance contain one-hundredth of a
grain of arsenic or more to the pound.  The board of reference,
most urgently needed for the protection of the public and
for the guidance of manufacturers and officers, has yet to be
created.  While from time immemorial certain articles of food
have been preserved by salting, smoking, drying, or by the
addition of sugar and in some cases of saltpetre, during the
last quarter of the 10th century the use of chemicals acting
more powerfully as antiseptics or preservatives extended
enormously, particularly in England.  A very large fraction
of the British food supply being obtained from abroad, a
proportionately great difficulty exists in obtaining the
food in an entirely fresh and untainted condition.  While
refrigeration and cold-storage has been the chief factor in
enabling the meat and other highly perishable foods to be
imported, other steps, ensuring preservation of goods that
are collected from farmers and brought together at shipping
ports, are necessary to prevent decomposition prior to such
goods coming into cold store.  Thus it is well-nigh impossible
to collect butter from farms in Australia or New Zealand far
distant from the coast without the addition of some chemical
preservative.  Heavily salted goods no longer appeal to the
modern palate, and, with the progress of specialized labour,
the inhabitants, especially of great towns, have become
accustomed to resort to manufactured provisions instead of
the home-made and home-cooked food.  Manufacturers of many
articles of preserved food gradually adopted the use of
chemical preservatives, and at the present time the practice
has become so general that it may be said that practically
every person in the United Kingdom who has passed the suckling
stage consumes daily more or less food containing chemical
preservatives.  The Food Act allows of the addition of any
ingredient, not injurious to health, if it be required for
the production or preparation of the food, or as an article
of commerce, in a state fit for carriage.  The legality or
otherwise of the use of chemical preservatives, therefore,
hinges upon their innocuousness.  Upon theoretical considerations
it is clear that a substance which is capable of acting as
an antiseptic mnst act injuriously upon bacteria, fungi or
yeasts, and as the human body is, generally speaking, less
resistant to poisons than the low organisms in question, it
would seem to follow that antiseptics are bound to affect it
injuriously.  It is, of course, a question of dose and
proportion.  It has further been said that all antiseptics
possess some sort of medicinal action, and however valuable
they may be in disease when administered under the control
of a competent physician, they have no business to be given
indiscriminately to sick and healthy alike by purveyors of
food.  The result of a general desire on the part of importers
and manufacturers of food materials, of the officers under
the Food Act, of the medical profession and of the public,
resulted after many years of agitation and complaint and
after numerous conflicting magisterial decisions, in the
appointment in 1899, by the president of the Local Government
Board, of a departmental committee to inquire into the use
of preservatives and colouring matters in food, with the
reference to report: first, whether the use of such materials
or any of them, in certain quantities, is injurious to
health, and, if so, in what proportion does their use become
injurious, and, second, to what extent and in what amounts
are they used at the present time.  After the examination
of a great number of witnesses a report was issued in
1901.  Perhaps the most important conclusion was that the
instances of actual harm which were alleged to have occurred
from the consumption of articles of food and drink chemically
preserved were few in number, and were not at all supported
by conclusive evidence.  During the period which has elapsed
since chemically preserved food has been used, the mortality
as a whole has . declined, and while this naturally cannot
be put to the credit of the preservatives but is largely
due to better feeding in consequence of the introduction of
cheaper foods, which are rendered possible to some extent
by the use of preservatives, it conclusively establishes the
fact that no obvious harm has been done to the health of the
community.  The committee made certain recommendations which
are the most authoritative pronouncements upon the subject.
They are as follows:--That the use of formaldehyde or formalin,
or preparations thereof, in food or drinks, be absolutely
prohibited, and that salicylic acid be not used in a greater
proportion than one grain per pint in liquid food and one
grain per pound in solid food, its presence in all cases to be
declared.  That the use of any preservatives or colouring
matter whatever in milk offered for sale in the United Kingdom
be constituted an offence under the Sale of Food and Drugs
Act. That the only preservative which it shall be lawful to
use in cream be boric acid, or mixtures of boric acid and
borax, and in amount not exceeding 0.25% expressed as boric
acid, the amount of such preservative to be notified by a
label upon the vessel.  That the only preservative permitted
to be used in butter and margarine be boric acid, or mixtures
of boric acid and borax, to be used in proportions not
exceeding 0.5% expressed as boric acid.  That in the case of
all dietetic preparations intended for the use of invalids or
infants, chemical preservatives of all kinds be prohibited.

Borax.

As the most commonly used chemical preservative is boric acid,
free or in the form of borax, which is extensively employed
in butter, cream, ham, sausages, potted meats, cured butter,
cream, ham, sausages, potted meats, cured fish, and sometimes
in jams and preserved fruit, the arguments for and against
its employment deserve more detailed attention.  It cannot be
looked upon in the light of common adulteration because, in any
case, the quantity used is but an inconsiderable fraction,
and the cost of it is generally greater than that of the food
itself.  It is not used to hide any traces of decomposition that
may have taken place or to efface its effects.  On the other
hand, it cannot be said to be ``required for the production
or preparation'' of the articles with which it is mixed,
since a fraction at least of similar articles are made without
preservative.  It enables food to be kept from decomposition,
but it also lessens the need for cleanliness and encourages
neglect and slovenliness in factories.  It has no taste, or
only a very slight one, hence does not manifest itself to
the consumer in the same way as does common salt, and cannot
therefore be avoided by him should he desire to do so.  Its
preservative action, that is, its potency, is very slight
in comparison with most other preservatives; its potential
injuriousness to man must be proportionately small.  It is
practically without interference upon salivary, peptic or tryptic
digestion, unless given in large quantities.  Experiments made
by F. W. Tunnicliffe and R. Rosenheim upon children showed
that neither boric acid nor borax, administered in doses of
from 15 to 23 grains per diem, exerted any influence upon
proteid metabolism or upon the assimilation of phosphatized
materials.  The fat assimilation was, if anything, improved,
and the body weight increased, and the general health and
well-being was in no way affected.  On the other hand, evidence
was adduced that in some cases digestive disturbances, after
continuous administration of from 15 to 40 grains, were
observable, nausea and vomiting in some, and skin irritation,
in one case resulting in complete baldness, in others.

Although it is in most cases very difficult to trace any gastric
disturbance to any particular article of food or one of its
ingredients, so as to exclude all other possible causes of
disturbance, a fairly good case has been made out by a number
of medical practitioners against boracic acid, taken in an
ordinary diet and not for experimental purposes.  The most
exhaustive investigation which has as yet been made was carried
out by Dr H. W. Wiley, chief chemist to the United States
department of agriculture.  A large number of young men who
had offered themselves as subjects for the investigations,
were boarded as a special ``hygienic table,'' but otherwise
continued their usual vocations during the whole period of the
experiment.  They were placed upon their honour to observe
the rules and regulations prepared by the department and to
use no other food or drink than that provided, water excepted,
and any water consumed away from the hygienic table was to be
measured and reported.  They were to continue their regular
habits and not to indulge in any excessive amount of labour or
exercise.  Weight, temperature and pulse rate were continuously
recorded.  The periods during which the subjects of the
experiment were kept under observation varied from thirty
to seventy days, periods of rest being given during which
they were permitted to eat moderately at tables other than
the experimental one.  There was a good and ample diet.
The observations were divided into three periods: the fore
period, the preservative period and the after period, during
the whole of which time the rations of each member were weighed
or measured and the excreta collected.  Before the ``fore''
period was commenced a note was made of the quantities of
food voluntarily consumed by each of the candidates, and from
these the proper amount necessary in each case to maintain
a comparatively constant body weight was calculated.  When
a suitable result was thus arrived at, the same quantity of
food was given daily during the ``preservative'' and ``after''
periods.  The preservative was given in the forms of borax and
of boric acid, at first mixed with butter, but subsequently
in gelatine capsules.  This was found to be necessary from
the fact that when the preservative was mixed with the
food and concealed in it some of the members of the table
evinced dislike of the food with which it was supposed to
be incorporated; those who thought that the preservative was
in the butter were disposed to find the butter unpalatable,
and the same was true with those who thought it might be in
the milk or coffee, while, when the preservative was given
openly, much less disturbance was created.  The preservative
was given at first in small doses such as might be consumed in
commercial food that had been preserved with borax; gradually
the quantities were increased in order to reach the limit
of toleration for each individual.  All food was weighed,
measured and analysed, the same being the case with the
excreta.  The blood was examined periodically as regards
colouring matter and number of corpuscles.  Everything was
done to keep up the general health of the members and to
do away with all unfavourable mental influences due to the
circumstances.  During the time of the experiment analyses were
made of 2550 food samples and 1175 samples each of urine and
faeces.  The general results were as follows: there was no
tendency to excite diarrhoea, and the nitrogen-metabolism
was but very little influenced, if anything being slightly
decreased.  As regards phosphorus the combined results of
all observations indicated that the preservative increased
the excretion of phosphorus to a small extent, from 97.3%
in the ``fore'' period, to 103.1 in the ``preservative''
period.  The metabolism of fat was uninfluenced; there was
an increase of the solid matters in the faeces and a decrease
of those in the urine, from which Dr Wiley concluded that the
preservatives interfered with the process of digestion and
absorption.  No influence was exerted on the corpuscles
and the haemoglobin of the blood.  The effect of boracic
acid and borax on the general health Varied with the amount
administered, quantities not exceeding half a gramme (7 1/2
grains) of boracic acid, or its equivalent of borax, producing
no immediate effects, but the long-continued administration
of such small doses seemed to produce the same results as
the use of large doses over a shorter period.  There was a
tendency to diminish the appetite and to produce a fooling
of fulness and uneasiness in the stomach and sometimes actual
nausea, also one of fulness in the head manifested as a
dull headache which disappeared when the preservative was
dropped.  The continued administration of large doses, 60
to 75 grains per day, resulted in most cases in loss of
appetite, inability to perform work of any kind and general
unfitness.  In most cases 45 grains per day could be taken
for some time, but gradually injurious effects were observed.
In some cases 30 and even 15 grains per day appeared to cause
illness, but it is acknowledged that these persons may have
been suffering from influenza.  The administration of 7.5
grains was declared by Dr Wiley to be too much for the normal
man to receive regularly, although for a limited period
there might be no danger to health.  Dr Wiley concludes his
report: ``It appears, therefore, that both boric acid and
borax, when continuously administered in small doses for a long
period or when given in large quantities for a short period,
create disturbance of appetite, of digestion and of health.''

Dr Wiley's conclusions were adversely criticized by Dr O.
Liebreich, who carefully studied on the spot all the conditions of
the experiment and the documents relating to the investigation.
He pointed out that the results were so indefinite and the
number of persons under control so small that ``one case
of self-deception or of forgetfulness only would throw into
absolute uncertainty the solution of the whole question''; that
no lasting injury to health was found in spite of transient
disturbances attributed by Dr Liebreich to other causes, and
that all persons declared themselves to be in better physical
condition after seven months than they had been before.  On
the whole the balance of evidence seems to be that while no
acute injury is likely to result from boron compounds in food,
they are liable to produce slighter digestive interferences.

Formaldehyde.

Other chemical substances that are in use for the purpose
of preserving food materials may be treated more shortly.
Formaldehyde, coming into commerce in the form of a 40% solution
under the name of formalin, was for a time largely used in
milk.  It certainly has very great antiseptic properties,
as little as 1 part in 50,000 parts checking the growth of
organisms in milk for some hours, but as the substance combines
with albuminous matters and hardens them to an extraordinary
degree, rendering, for instance, gelatine perfectly insoluble
in water, it exerts an inhibitory effect on the digestive
ferments.  It injures salivary, peptic and pancreatic
digestion.  A set of five kittens fed with milk containing 1
part in 50,000 of formaldehyde for seven weeks were strongly
retarded in growth, three ultimately dying, while four control
kittens fed on pure milk flourished.  In even moderate doses
formalin produces severe pains in the abdomen and has caused
death.  It is now generally recognized as a substance
that is admirably adapted for disinfecting a sick-room,
but quite improper and unsuitable for food preservation.

Salicylic acid.

Salicylic acid or orthohydroxybenzoic acid is either obtained
from oil of winter-green or is made synthetically by Kolbe's
process from phenol and carbonic acid.  Artificial salicylic
acid generally contains impurities (creasotic acids) which act
very injuriously upon health.  When pure, salicylic acid employed
as a food preservative has never produced decided injurious
effects, although administered by itself in fairly strong
solution it acts as an irritant to the stomach and kidneys,
and sometimes causes skin eruptions.  It is a powerful drug in
larger doses and requires careful administration, especially
as about 60% of the persons to whom it is administered show
symptoms known as ``salicylism,'' namely, deafness, headache,
delirium, vomiting, sometimes haemorrhage or heart-failure.
It is doubtful whether pure salicyiic acid produces these
symptoms.  When present in proportion of 1 to 1000 it inhibits
the growth of moulds and yeasts.  In jams 2 grains per pound
and in beverages 7 grains to a gallon are considered by
manufacturers to be sufficient for preservative purposes.
It is used mainly in articles of food or drink containing
sugar, that is to say, in jams and preserved fruit, lime
and lemon juices, syrups, cider, British wines and imported
lager.  Its use in butter, potted meat, milk or cream, in
which it was not infrequently met with formerly, is now quite
exceptional.  It has already been stated that the preservative
committee recommended its permissive use in small proportions.
To some extent benzoic acid and benzoates have taken the place
of salicylic acid and salicylates, partly because salicylic
acid can readily be detected analytically, while benzoic acid
is not quite easily discoverable.  Its antiseptic potency is
about equal to that of salicylic acid, and the arguments for
or against its use are similar to those relating to the latter.

For the preservation of meat and beer, lime juice and dried
fruit, sulphur dioxide (sulphurous acid) and some of the
sulphites have long been employed.  Sulphuring of hops and
disinfection of barrels by burning brimstone matches is an
exceedingly old practice.  Burning sulphur is well known as
a gaseous disinfectant of rooms, bacteria being killed in air
containing 1% of the gas.  As the taste and smell of sulphurous
acid and of sulphites are very pronounced it follows that but
small quantities can be added to food or drink.  About 1 part
in 4000 or 5000 of beer is the usual amount.  While, in larger
quantities, the sulphites have decided physiological activity
and are apt to produce nephritis, there is not any evidence
that they have ever caused injurious effects in alcoholic
liquors.  The excise authorities have tacitly sanctioned
their employment in breweries, although the Customs and Inland
Revenue Act 1885 declares that a brewer of beer shall not add
any matter or thing thereto except finings or other matter
or thing sanctioned by the commissioners of Inland Revenue,
and although sulphites are used in all breweries, the Board
of Inland Revenue do neither sanction nor interfere.  An
antiseptic with a pronounced taste is obviously a safer one in
the hands of a nonmedical person than one virtually devoid of
taste, like boric, salicylic or benzoic acids or their salts.

Other preservatives.

Sodium fluoride, a salt possessing powerfully antiseptic
properties, but also at the same time clearly injurious to health
and interfering with salivary and peptic digestion, has been
found in butter, imported mainly from Brittany, in quantities
quite inadmissible in food under any circumstances.  A few
other chemical preservatives are occasionally used.  Hydrogen
peroxide has been found effective in milk sterilization, and
if the substance is pure, no serious objection can be raised
against it.  Saccharine, and other artificial sweetening
agents, having antiseptic properties, are taking the place
of sugar in beverages like ginger-beer and lemonade, but the
substitution of a trace of a substance that provides sweetness
without at the same time giving the substance and food value
of sugar is strongly to be deprecated.  The employment of
chemical preservative matters in articles intended for human
consumption threatens to become a grave danger to health or
well-being.  Each dealer in food contributes but a little;
each one claims that his particular article of food cannot be
brought into commerce without preservative, and each condemns
the use of these substances by others.  There is doubtless
something to be said for the practice, but infinitely more
against it.  It cheapens food by allowing its collection
in districts far away, but the chief gainer is not the
public as a whole but the manufacturer and the wholesale
merchant.  Our body has by inheritance acquired habits and
needs that are quite foreign to chemical interference.
Some day, artificially prepared foods, containing liberal
quantities of matters that are not now food ingredients, may
conceivably compare with natural food products, but that day
is not yet, and meantime it ought to be clearly the duty of
the state to see that the evil is checked.  The intention
which has introduced this form of adulteration may be more
or less beneficent, but in practice it is almost wholly evil.

Colouring matter in food.

A similar criticism applies to the continually extending
use of colouring matter in food.  Civilized man requires his
food not only to be healthy and tasty. but also attractive in
appearance.  It is the art of the cook to prepare dishes that
please the eye.  This is a difficult art, for the various
colouring matters which are naturally present in meat and
fish, in fruit, legumes and green vegetables are of a delicate
and changeable nature and easily affected or destroyed by
cooking.  Many years ago some artful, if stupid, cook found that
green vegetables like peas or spinach, when cooked in a copper
pan, by preference a dirty one, showed a far more brilliant
colour than the same vegetables cooked in earthenware or
iron.  The manufacturer who puts up substances like peas
in pots or tins for sale produces the same effect which the
cook in her ignorance innocently obtained, by the wilful
addition of a substance known to be injurious to health,
namely, sulphate of copper.  The copper combines with the
chlorophyll, forming copper phyllocyanate, which, by reason
of its insolubility in the gastric juice, is comparatively
innocuous.  Preserved peas and beans have been for so many
years ``coppered'' in this manner that it is difficult to
induce the public to accept the vegetables when possessed of
their natural colour only.  Several countries endeavoured to
abolish the objectionable practice, but the public pressure
has been too great, and to-day the practice is almost
universal.  In England the amount of copper corresponds to
from one to two grains per pound of the vegetable calculated as
crystallized copper sulphate.  The opinion of the departmental
committee was clearly expressed that the practice should be
prohibited.  No effect has been given to the recommendation.

Milk is naturally almost white with a tint of cream colour.
When adulterated with water this tint changes to a bluish
one.  To hide this tell-tale of a fraud, a yellow colouring
matter used to be added by London milkmen.  Very gradually
this practice, which had its origin in fraud, has extended
to all milk sold in London.  The consumer, mis-educated into
believing milk to be yellow, now requires it to be so.  Large
dairy companies have endeavoured to wean the public of its
error, without success.  From milk the practice extended to
butter; natural butter is sometimes yellowish, mostly a faint
fawn, and sometimes almost white.  In agricultural districts
this is well known and taken as a matter of course.  In big
towns, where the connexion of butter and the cow is not well
known, the consumer requires butter to be of that colour
which he imagines to be butter-colour.  Anatto, turmeric,
carrot-juice used formerly to be employed for colouring
milk, butter and cheese, but of late certain aniline dyes,
mostly quite as harmless physiologically as the vegetable
dyes just mentioned, are largely being used.  The same aniline
dyes are also employed in the manufacture of an imitation
Demerara sugar from white beet sugar crystals.  Aniline
dyes are very frequently used by jam-makers; the natural
colour of the fruit is apt to suffer in the boiling-pan, and
unripe, discoloured or unsound fruit can be made brilliant
and enticing by dye.  The brilliant colours of cheap sugar
confectionery are almost invariably produced by artificial
tar-colours.  Most members of this class of colouring matters
are quite harmless, especially in the small quantities that
are required for colouring, but there are a few exceptions,
picric acid, dinitrocresol, Martius-yellow, Bismarck brown
and one of the tropaeolins being distinctly poisonous.  On
the whole, the employment of powerful aniline dyes is an
advance as compared with the use of the vicious and often
highly poisonous mineral colours which Hassall met with
so frequently in the middle of the 19th century.  Mineral
colours, with very few exceptions, are no longer used in
food.  Oxide of iron or ochre is still very often found in potted
meats, fish sauces and chocolates; dioxide of manganese is
admixed with cheap chocolates.  All lump sugar of commerce is
dyed.  Naturally it has a yellow tint.  Ultramarine is added
to it and counteracts the yellowness.  In the same way our
linen is naturally yellow and only made to look white by the
use of the blue-bag.  The same idea underlies both practices,
and indeed the use of all colouring matters in manufactured
articles, namely, to make them look better than they would
otherwise.  Within bounds, this is a reasonable and laudable
desire, but it also covers many sins--poor materials, bad
workmanship, faulty manufacturing and often fraud.  Like
sugar, flour and rice are sometimes blued to make them look
white.  All vinegar, most beers, all stout, are artificially
coloured with burnt sugar or caramel.  The line dividing the
legitimate and laudable from the fraudulent and punishable
is so thin and difficult to draw that neither the law nor
its officers have ventured to draw it, and yet it is a
matter which urgently requires regulation at the hands of the
state.  Practices which, when new, admit of regulation are
almost ineradicable when they have become old and possessed
of ``vested rights.'' Recognizing this, the departmental
committee, like the royal commission on arsenical poisons,
recommended that ``means be provided, either by the
establishment of a separate court of reference, or by the
imposition of more direct obligation on the Local Government
Board, to exercise supervision over the use of preservatives
and colouring matters in foods and to prepare schedules of
such as may be considered inimical to the public health.''

In close connexion with this subject is the occasional
occurrence of injurious metallic impurities in food-materials.
Tin chloride is used in the West Indies to produce the yellow
colour of Demerara sugar.  The old processes of sugar-boiling
left some of the brown syrup attached to the crystals, giving
them both their colour and their delicious aroma; with the
introduction of modern processes affording a much greater
yield of highly refined sugar, white sugar only was the
result.  The consumer, accustomed to yellow sugar had the
colour artificially supplied by the action of the tin compound
upon the sugar.  At the present time all Demerara sugar,
with the exception of that portion that is dyed with aniline
dye, has had its colour artificially given it and consequently
contains strong traces of tin.  Soda-water, lemonade and
other artificial aerated liquors are liable to tin or lead
contamination, the former proceeding from the tin pipes and
vessels, the latter from citric and tartaric acids and cream
of tartar used as ingredients, these being crystallized by
their manufacturers in leaden pans.  Almost all ``canned''
goods contain more or less tin as a contamination from the
tin-plate.  While animal foods do not attack the tin to any
great extent, their acidity being small, almost all vegetable
materials, especially fruits and tomatoes, powerfully corrode
the tin covering of the plate, dissolving it and becoming
impregnated with tin compounds.  It is quite easy to obtain
tin-reactions in abundance from every grain of tinned
peaches, apples or tomatoes.  These tin compounds are by no
means innocuous; yet poisoning from tinned vegetable foods
is of rare occurrence.  On the whole, tin-plate is a very
unsuitable material for the storage and preservation of acid
goods.  Certain enamels, used for glazing earthenware or for
coating metal cooking pots, contain lead, which they yield
to the food prepared in them.  Food materials that have been
in contact with galvanized vessels sometimes are contaminated
with zinc.  Zinc is also not infrequently present in wines.

Results of English Food Acts.

The effect of the application of the food laws has been entirely
beneficial.  Not only has the percentage proportion of samples found
adulterated largely declined, but the gross forms of adulteration
which prevailed in the middle of the 19th century have almost
vanished.  Plenty of fraud still prevails, but poisoning by
reckless admixture is of exceedingly rare occurrence.  Whilst
formerly milk was not infrequently adulterated with an equal
bulk of water, few fraudulent milkmen now venture to exceed
an addition of 10 or 15%. A bird's-eye view over the effect is
obtained from the following figures for England and Wales:--



            Number of Samples
 Year    Examined   Adulterated    Percentage of Adulteration
 1877       14706          2826              19.2
 1879       17049          2535              14.8
 1884       22951          3311              14.4
 1889       26956          3096              11.5
 1894       39516          4060              10.3
 1899       53056          4970               9.4
 1904       84678          7173               8.5


The details of the working of the Food Acts in 1904 in
England and Wales are set out in the table on the next page.

United States.---Each separate state has food laws of its
own.  From the Ist of January 1907 the ``American National
Pure Food Law,'' applicable to the United States generally,
came into force, without superseding the State food laws,
the only effect of the National Law being the legalization
of shipments of any food which complies with the provisions
of the National Law into any state from another state, even
though the food is adulterated within the meaning of the state
law.  The law applies to every person in the United States
who receives food from another state and offers it for sale
in the original unbroken packages in which he receives it,
and if it is adulterated or misbranded within the meaning of
the National Law he can be punished for having received it
and offering it for sale in the original unbroken package to
the same extent as the person who shipped it to him can be
punished.  The mere fact that he is a citizen of a state soiling
food within that state will not excuse him; and he will be
subject to prosecution to the same extent as he would be if
he uttered counterfeit money.  Retailers, however, can protect
themselves from prosecution when they sell goods in original
unbroken packages by procuring a written guarantee, signed by
the person from whom they received the goods, such guarantee
stating that the goods are not adulterated within the meaning
of the National Law. The guarantee must also contain the name
and address of the wholesale vendor, but unless the parties
signing the guarantee are residents of the United States
the guarantee is void.  The law affects all foods shipped
from one state or district into another and also all foods
intended for export to a foreign country.  It also affects
all food products manufactured or offered for sale in any

Table showing working of British Food Acts, 1904.



                          Samples           Found           Percentage
                         Examined        Adulterated       Adulterated
 Milk .   .   .   .   .    36,413              4,031              11.1
 Butter   .   .   .   .    15,124                867               5.7
 Cheese   .   .   .   .     2,176                 20               0.9
 Margarine    .   .   .     1,169                 83               7.1
 Lard .   .   .   .   .     2,489                  4               0.2
 Bread    .   .   .   .       473                  1               0.2
 Flour    .   .   .   .       476                  3               0.6
 Tea  .   .   .   .   .       486                  .               . .
 Coffee   .   .   .   .     2,550                161               6.3
 Cocoa    .   .   .   .       477                 42               8.8
 Sugar    .   .   .   .       901                 49               5.4
 Mustard  .   .   .   .       812                 39               4.8
 Confectionery and Jam      1,303                 72               5.5
 Pepper   .   .   .   .     2,393                 43               1.8
 Wine .   .   .   .   .       308                 54              17.5
 Beer .   .   .   .   .     1,065                 75               7.0
 Spirits  .   .   .   .     6,938                832              12.0
 Drugs:--
   Camphorated Oil    .  395                  24              6.1
   Sweet Spirit of Nitre 243                  66             27.2
   Sulphur    .   .   .  131                   7              5.3
   Cream of Tartar       441                  88             20.0
   Glycerine  .   .   .  192                  21             10.9
   Rhubarb preparations   96                   5              5.2
   Seidlitz Powders   .   81                   3              3.7
   Linseed    .   .   .   70                   1              1.4
   Magnesia   .   .   .   48                   9             18.8
   Cod Liver Oil  .   .  245                   7              2.9
   Iron Pills .   .   .   16                  ..               ..
   Compound Liquorice
     Powder   .   .   .  111                   2              1.8
   Tincture of Iodine .   23                   4             17.4
   Other Drugs    .    1,124                 124             11.0
 Total Drugs  .   .   .     3,214                365              11.3
 Other Articles:--
   Ginger .   .   .   .  704                  ..               ..
   Syrup and Treacle  .  183                   8              4.4
   Baking Powder  .   .  281                  11              3.9
   Vinegar    .   .   .  773                  57              7.4
   Arrowroot  .   .   .  467                   3              0.6
   Oatmeal    .   .   .  359                  ..               ..
   Sago   .   .   .   .  227                  14              6.2
   Olive Oil  .   .   .  306                   9              2.9
   Dripping and Fat   .   85                   1              1.2
   Sundries   .   .    2,496                 329             13.2
 Total other Articles       5,881                432               7.3

 All Articles .   .   .    84,678              7,173               8.5


territory or the District of Columbia, wherever such foods
may have been produced.  The law does not affect foods
manufactured and sold wholly within one state, nor such as
have been shipped from another state but not in the original
package.  While thus the National Food Law is mainly intended
to regulate the food traffic between the different states,
and leaves to the states freedom to regulate their internal
traffic, it must gradually tend to unify the present complicated
state food legislation, and it is therefore here more
usefully considered than would be the separate state laws.

The definition of adulteration as set forth in sec. 7 is as
follows:---``For the purpose of this act an article shall be
deemed to be adulterated: In the case of drugs: (1) If, when
a drug is sold under or by a name recognized in the United
States Pharmacopoeia or National Formulary, it differs from the
standard of strength, quality or purity, as determined by the
test laid down in the United States Pharmacopoeia or National
Formulary official at the time of investigation; provided
that no drug defined in the United States Pharmacopoeia or
National Formulary shall be deemed to be adulterated under
this provision if the standard of strength, quality or purity
be plainly stated upon the bottle, box or other container
thereof although the standard may differ from that determined
by the test laid down in the United States Pharmacopoeia or
National Formulary. (2) If its strength or purity fall below
the professed standard or quality under which it is sold.
In the case of confectionery: If it contains terra alba,
barytes, talc, chrome yellow or other mineral substance or
poisonous colour or flavour, or other ingredient deleterious
or detrimental to health, or any vinous, malt or spirituous
liquor or compound or narcotic drug. In the case of food:
(1) If any substance has been mixed and packed with it so
as to reduce or lower or injuriously affect its quality or
strength. (2) If any substance has been substituted wholly or
in part for the article. (3) If any valuable constituent of
the article has been wholly or in part abstracted. (4) If it
be mixed, coloured, powdered, coated or stained in a manner
whereby damage or inferiority is concealed. (5) If it contain
any added poisonous or other added deleterious ingredient
which may render such article injurious to health: provided
that when in the preparation of food products for shipment
they are preserved by any external application applied in
such manner that the preservation is necessarily removed
mechanically, or by maceration in water, or otherwise, and
directions for removal of said preservations shall be printed
on the covering of the package, the provisions of the act
shall be construed as applying only when said products are
ready for consumption. (6) If it consists in whole or in
part of a filthy, decomposed or putrid animal or vegetable
substance, or any portion of an animal unfit for food, whether
manufactured or not, or if it is the product of a diseased
animal or one that has died otherwise than by slaughter. . . .''

Whatever vagueness attaches to these definitions is intended
to be removed by secs. 3 and 4, which provide that the
secretaries of the Treasury, of Agriculture, and of Commerce
and Labour ``shall make uniform rules and regulations
for carrying out the provisions of the act, including the
collection and examination of specimens of food and drugs,''
which examination ``shall be made in the bureau of chemistry
of the department of agriculture, or under the direction and
supervision of such bureau, for the purpose of determining
from such examinations whether such articles are adulterated
or misbranded within the meaning of the act.'' Contravention
of the act is punishable for the first offence by a fine not
exceeding 500 dollars or 1 year's imprisonment or both, and for
each subsequent offence by a fine not less than 1000 dollars
or 1 year's imprisonment or both.  Under an act of congress,
approved March 1903, the bureau of agriculture established
standards of purity for food products, ``to determine what
are regarded as adulterations therein for the guidance of the
officials of the various states and of the courts of justice.''
The elaborate set of food definitions and standards worked
out under the guidance of the chief of the bureau, Dr H. W.
Wiley, have also received legal sanction and form a corollary
to the National Food Law. For each of the more important
articles of food an official definition of its nature and
composition has thus been established, of the utmost value
to food officers, manufacturers and merchants not only in
the United States but throughout the world.  A few of these
definitions may here find a place:-``Lard is the rendered
fresh fat from slaughtered healthy hogs.  Leaf-lard is the
lard rendered at moderately high temperatures from the internal
fat of the abdomen of the hog, excluding that adherent to the
intestines.  Standard lard and standard leaflard are lard
and leaf-lard respectively, free from rancidity, containing
not more than 1% of substances other than fatty acids, not
fat, necessarily incorporated therewith in the process of
rendering, and standard leaf-lard has an iodine number not
greater than 60. Milk is the lacteal secretion obtained by
the complete milking of one or more healthy cows, properly
fed and kept, excluding that obtained within 10 days before
and 5 days after calving.  Standard milk is milk containing
not less than 12% of total solids and not less than 8 1/2% of
solids not fat, nor less than 3 1/4% of milk-fat.  Standard
skim-milk is skim-milk containing not less than 9 1/4% of
milk-solids.  Standard condensed milk and standard sweetened
condensed milk are condensed milk and sweetened condensed milk
respectively, containing no less than 28% of milk-solids,
of which not less than one-fourth is milk-fat.  Standard
milk-fat or butter-fat has a Reichert-Meissl number not less
than 24 and a specific gravity at 40 C. not less than 0.905.
Standard butter is butter containing not less than 82.5% of
butter-fat.  Standard whole-milk cheese is cheese containing
in the water-free substance not less than 50% of butter-fat.
Standard sugar contains at least 99.5% of sucrose.  Standard
chocolate is chocolate containing not more than 3% of ash
insoluble in water, 3.5% of crude fibre, and 9% of starch, nor
less than 45% of cocoa-fat.'' Numerous other standards with
details too technical for reproduction here have also been fixed.

German Empire.--The law of the 14th of May 1879, largely
based upon the English Food and Drugs Act 1875, regulates
the trade in food.  Each town or district appoints a public
analyst, and there is a state laboratory in Berlin directly
under the control of the ministry of the interior with advisory
functions.  The ministry, under the advice of this department,
issues from time to time regulations concerning the sale of
or details specifying the mode of analysis of various products
of food or drink.  Both in the United States and in Germany,
therefore, the executive officers (public analysts) have some
authoritative official department for guidance and information.

PARTICULAR ARTICLES ADULTERATED

We now proceed to consider adulteration as practised
during recent years in the more important articles of food.

Milk.---Milk adulteration means in modern times either
addition of water, abstraction of cream, or both, or addition
of chemical preservative.  The old stories of the use of chalk
or of sheep's brains are fables.  Owing to the wide variation
to which milk is naturally subjected in composition, it is
exceedingly difficult to establish beyond doubt whether any
given sample is in the state in which it came from the cow or
has been impoverished.  The composition of cow's milk varies
with many conditions. (1) The race of the animal: the large
cows of the plains yielding a great quantity of poor milk,
the smaller cows from hilly districts less amount of rich
milk.  Hence, milk from Dutch cows compares very unfavourably
with that of Jerseys or short-horns.  Watery and acid foods
like mangolds and brewers' grains produce a more aqueous
milk than do albuminous and fatty foods like oil-cakes. (2)
Sudden change of food, of weather and of temperature. (3)
Nervous disturbances to which even a cow is subject, as, for
instance, at shows, may greatly influence the composition
of the milk.  The portion obtained at the beginning of
a milking is poorer in fat than that yielded towards the
end.  Morning milk is as a rule poorer in fat than evening
milk.  Soon after calving the animal gives a richer product
than at later periods, both the quantity and the composition
declining towards the end of the lactation.  The variations due
to these different circumstances may be very great, as is seen
from the following analyses, fairly representing the maximum,
minimum and mean composition of the milk of single cows:--



                            Minimum   Maximum      Mean
 Specific Gravity            1.0264    1.0370    1.0316
 Fat                          1.67%     6.47%     3.59%
 Casein                       1.79%     6.29%     3.02%
 Albumen                      0.25%     1.44%     0.50%
 Milk Sugar (lactose)         2.11%     6.12%     4.78%
 Salts                        0.35%     1.21%     0.71%
 Water                       80.32%    90.69%    87.40%


In market milk such wide variations are not so liable to
occur, as the milk from one animal tends to average that
from another, but even in the milk from herds of cows the
variations may be considerable.  The average composition of
genuine milk supplied by one of the largest dairy companies in
London, as established by the analysis of 120,000 separate
samples recorded by Dr P. Vieth, is fat 4.1%, other milk
solids (``solids not fat'' or ``nonfatty solids'') 8.8%, total
dissolved matters (total solids) 12.9%, the variations being
from 3.6 to 4.6% in the fat and 8.6 to 9.1% in the solids not
fat.  It is clear that the 4.6% of fat could be reduced, by
skimming, to 3.0%, and the 9.1% of solids not fat to 8.5% by
addition of water, without bringing the composition of the
milk thus adulterated outside that of genuine milk.  In reality
even wider limits of variation must be reckoned with, because
small farmers self the milk of single cows, and this, as shown
above, may fluctuate enormously.  The Board of Agriculture,
in pursuance of the powers conferred upon it by the Food Act
1899, issued in 1901 ``The Sale of Milk Regulations,'' which
provide that where a sample of milk (not being milk sold as
skimmed or separated or condensed milk) contains less than 3% of
milk-fat, or less than 8.5% of non-fatty solids, it shall be
presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the milk is not
genuine.  But even in these cases it is open to the vendor
to show, if he can, that the deficiency was due to natural
causes or to unavoidable circumstances.  The courts have
held that when deviations are the result of negligence or
ignorance the vendor is nevertheless liable to punishment.
Thus, when a vendor omits to stir up the contents of a pan
so as to prevent the cream from rising to the top, he may be
punished, if by such omission the milk becomes altered in
composition so as no longer to comply with the regulations;
or, when a farmer allows an undue interval between the milkings
whereby the composition of the milk may be affected, he may
be liable for the consequences.  As the limits embodied in
the milk regulations were necessarily fixed at figures lower
than those which are usually afforded by genuine milk, and
as it is a comparatively simple matter to ascertain the
percentage of fatty and non-fatty solids, a strong tendency
exists to bring down commercial milk to the low limits
of the regulations without coming into collision with the
law.  The fat of milk is its most valuable and most important
constituent.  The exact determination of the percentage of
fat is therefore the chief problem of the milk-analyst.
All analyses made prior to the year 1885 are more or less
inexact, because a complete separation of the fat from the
other milk constituents had not been obtained.  In that
year M. A. Adams, by the simple and ingenious expedient of
spreading a known volume of the milk to be analysed upon a
strip of blotting-paper and extracting the paper, together
with the dried milk, by a fat solvent, such as ether or
benzene, succeeded in completely removing the fat from the
other constituents.  Since that time simpler and more rapid
means have been based upon centrifugal separation of the
fat.  When a measured quantity of milk is mixed with strong
sulphuric acid, which dissolves the casein and other nitrogenous
constituents of the milk, but leaves the fat-globules quite
untouched, the latter can easily be separated in a centrifugal,
in the form of an oil the volume of which can be ascertained
in a suitably constructed and graduated glass vessel, and thus
the percentage ascertained very rapidly and accurately; such
centrifugal contrivances constructed by H. Leffman, N. Gerber
and others are now in general use in dairies, and cheese and
butter factories.  The amount of ``total solids'' contained in
milk, that is to say, of all constituents other than water, is
speedily ascertained by evaporating the water from a measured
or weighed portion of milk and drying the residue obtained
in a water-oven to constant weight.  By subtracting from the
percentage of total solids that of the fat the amount of ``solids
not fat'' results, and by cautiously burning off the organic
substances, the salts or mineral matters are left.  When the
percentage of ``solids not fat'' is less than 8.5 a simple
proportion sum suffices to show what percentage of water must
be present to reduce the ``solids not fat'' to the amount
found.  As the added water also reduces proportionately the
percentage of mineral matter natural to normal milk (about
0.71 to 0.73%), the determination of the ash affords valuable
assistance to the analyst.  When the amount of ash is higher
than normal, tests must be made for borax, soda or other
mineral matters that are often added as preservatives or acid
neutralizers.  Borax is easily tested for by dissolving the milk
ash in a drop or two of dilute hydrochloric acid, moistening
a strip of yellow turmeric paper with the solution and drying
it, when, in the presence of even very minute quantities of
borax, the yellow colouring matter of the turmeric paper will
be changed into a brilliant red-brown.  Formaldehyde (which
in 40% water solution forms the formalin of commerce) in milk
affords a bright purple colour when the milk containing it is
mixed with sulphuric acid containing a trace of an iron salt.

Condensed milk is milk that has been evaporated under
reduced pressure with or without the addition of sugar.
Generally one part of condensed milk corresponds to three
parts of the original milk.  There is no case on record of
adulteration of unsweetened condensed milk, but sweetened
milk has in the past been frequently prepared either
from machine-skimmed or partly skimmed milk and sold as
whole-milk.  As sweetened condensed milk is largely used by
the poorer part of the population for the feeding of infants,
and as the fat of milk is, as stated before, its most valuable
constituent, this class of fraud was a particularly mischievous
one, and led to the inclusion in the Food Act of 1899 of a
special proviso that every tin or other receptacle containing
condensed, separated or skimmed milk must bear a conspicuous
label showing the nature of the contents.  As the bulk of
condensed milk consumed in England is imported from abroad,
the customs authorities now exercise a strict supervision over
the imports, and object to the importation of such condensed
milk as contains less than 9% of milk-fat.  The average
composition of sweetened condensed milk may be taken, with slight
variations, to be: water 24.6%, fat 11.4%, casein and albumen
10%, milk-sugar 11.7%, cane-sugar 40.3%, mineral matters 2.0%.

Cream.--There are not any regulations nor official standards
relating to this article, the value of which depends upon its
contents in fat.  Good stiff cream obtained by centrifugal
skimming may contain as much as 60% of milk-fat, but generally
dairymen's cream has only about 40%. On the other hand, milk
that is abnormally rich in fat is in some places sold as
cream.  Attempts to compel dairymen to work up to any stated
minimum of fat have failed, the English courts holding that
cream is not an article that has any standard of quality, but
varies with the character of the cows from which the milk is
obtained and the food on which they are fed.  Therefore, as
regards the most important portion of cream, the amount of
fat, adulteration does not exist unless there is a substitution
for the milk-fat by an emulsified foreign fat, but cases of
this description are exceedingly rare.  On the other hand,
such additions of foreign materials, like starch paste or
gelatine, which have for object the giving of an appearance
of richness to a naturally poor and dilute article, are not
uncommon.  While formerly the sale of cream was entirely in
the hands of milkmen, there has been of late a tendency to
regard cream as an article coming within the range of grocery
goods.  To enable this perishable article to be kept in a
grocery store it has to receive an addition of preservative, as
a rule boric preservative, in excessive amount.  The purchaser
may take it that all cream sold by others than milkmen, and
much of that even, is thus preserved and should be shunned.
The limit of boric preservative that might be permitted,
but which is nearly always exceeded, is one-quarter of 1%.

Butter.---Of all articles of food butter has most fully
received the attention of the sophisticator, because it
is the most costly of the ordinary articles of diet, and
because its composition is so intricate and variable that its
analysis presents extraordinary difficulties and its nature
exceptional and various opportunities for admixture with foreign
substances.  It is the intention of the producer of butter
to separate the fatty portion of the milk as completely
as is practicable from the other constituents of the milk
without destroying the fat-globules.  This can only be done
by churning. by which operation the milk-globules are caused
more or less to adhere to each other without losing their
individual existence.  Owing to this subdivision of the
fat, and perhaps to the composition of the fat itself, butter
is a more digestible fatty article of food than lard or
oil.  It is not possible by mechanical means to remove the
whole of the water and curd of the milk from the butter;
indeed ``overworking'' the butter with the object of removing
the water as completely as possible ruins the structure
to such an extent as to make the product unmerchantable.
In well-made butter there are contained about 85% of pure
milk-fat, from 12 to 13% of water, and 2 or 3% of curd and
albumen, milk-sugar or its product of transformation--lactic
acid,--and phosphates and other milk-salts.  In some kinds of
butter, Russian for instance, the percentage of water is rather
less.  Generally, by churning at a low temperature, a drier,
at higher temperatures a wetter, butter is obtained.  The
curd must be got rid of as completely as practicable if
the product is to have reasonable keeping properties.  To
prevent rapid decomposition salt in various quantities is
added.  Considering that 100 lb. (10 gallons) of milk yield
only from 3 1/2 to 4 lb. of properly made butter, it is obvious
that a great inducement exists to increase the yield either
by leaving an undue proportion of water or curd, or by adding
an excessive quantity of salt.  In some parts of Ireland the
butter is worked up with warm brine into so-called pickle
butter, whereby it becomes both watered and salted in one
operation.  Until lately, when the English Board of Agriculture
fixed a limit of 16 for the percentage of water that may
legitimately be present in butter, this kind of debasement could
not easily be dealt with, but even now, where a legal water-limit
exists, the addition of water either as such, or in the shape
of milk or of condensed milk, is very commonly practised,
more or less care being taken not to exceed the legalized
limit.  It is obvious that there is an ample margin of profit
for the mixer who starts with Russian butter containing 10%
of water and works it up with milk, fresh or condensed, to
16%, all the other milk-constituents, namely, sugar, curd and
salt, thus introduced counting as ``butter'' in the eyes of the
law.  A very considerable number of butter-factors in London
and in other parts of England thus dilute dry butter and
consider this a legitimate operation so long as they keep
within the legal water-limit.  Nay, they may even exceed this,
if only they give to their adulterated article a euphonious
name, which, while legally notifying the admixture, raises
in the mind of the ignorant purchaser the belief that he
is purchasing something particularly choice and excellent.
``Milk-blended butter,'' with as much as 24 or more per cent
of water and as little as 68% of fat, is still largely sold
to purchasers who think that they are obtaining extra value
for their money; several attempts to deal with the scandal by
legislature having led to no result.  The introduction of water
into butter is also practised on a large scale in the United
States, where a branch of trade in ``renovated'' butter has
sprung up.  In the States a considerable quantity of butter
is produced by small farmers, and by the time the product
comes into the market the addition of chemical preservatives
to prevent decomposition not being permitted--the butter has
so much deteriorated in quality that it fetches a very low
price.  It is bought up by factors, the fat melted out and
washed, then again worked up with water and salt, care
being generally taken to leave about 16% of water in the
product, which finds a ready sale in England.  It may here
be pointed out that England imports an enormous quantity of
butter from the continent of Europe, the colonies, Siberia
and America, the imports, less exports, averaging during
1903-1906 no less than 203,300 tons annually, and the total
consumption (home produce plus imports) 566,441 tons, the
consumption per head of population being 19.2 lb. per annum.  In
butter, as in most other articles of food, adulteration with
water is the most common, most profitable, and least risky
form of fraud.  Great fortunes are thus made out of water.

There is an altogether different class of butter adulteration
which concerns itself with the substitution of other fatty
matters for the whole or part of the really valuable portion
of the butter- fat.  Margarine is the legalized and therefore
legitimate butter surrogate, prepared by churning any
suitable fat with milk into a cream, solidifying the latter
by injection into cold water and working the lumps together,
precisely as is done in the case of the churned cream of
milk.  The substitution of margarine for butter is frequent,
in spite of all legal enactments directed against this fraud,
the semblance between butter and margarine being so great
that a trained palate is necessary to distinguish the two
articles.  Much more frequent and much more difficult to deal
with is the sale of mixtures of butter and of margarine.
In order to show the difficulties inherent to this subject,
it will be necessary to consider the chemical nature of
butter-fat, and to compare it with other fats that may enter
into the composition of margarine.  Butter-fat is butter freed
from water, curd and salt and extraneous matter.  Like the
greater number of natural fats it consists of a mixture of
triglycerides, that is, combinations of glycerin with substances
of the nature of acids.  These acids, in the case of fats
other than butter-fat, are mainly oleic, palmitic and stearic
acids.  Butter-fat, in addition to these, contains other
acids which sharply distinguish it from the vast majority
of other fats and, with the exception of cocoa-nut oil, from
those substances which are or may be used to mix with butter,
by the circumstance that a considerable proportion of its
acids, when separated by chemical means from the glycerin, are
readily soluble in water, or may be easily volatilized either
alone or in a current of steam, whereas the acids separated
from the foreign fats are practically both insoluble and
non-volatile.  This fundamental principle serves at once to
distinguish, for example, between butter and margarine, and
has been made use of by analysts not only for this purpose
but also with a view to determine the relative amounts of
butter and margarine in a mixture of these substances.  Thus
butter-fat contains about 88%, more or less, of ``insoluble
fatty acids,'' while margarine contains about 95.5%; 5
grammes of butter-fat when chemically decomposed yield an
amount of volatile fatty acids which requires about 26 cubic
centimetres (more or less) of deci-normal alkali solution for
neutralization, while margarine requires mostly less than 1
cubic centimetre (Wollny or Reichert-Meissl method).  There
are other differences between the two kinds of fat: the
specific gravity of butter-fat is higher than that of most
other fats; its power of refracting a ray of light is less;
the ``iodine absorption'' of butter-fat is smaller than that
of many other fatty matters, and so on.  But the composition
of perfectly genuine butter-fat varies within somewhat wide
limits.  The milk from a cow fed on good and ample food in
warm weather yields a fat that is rich in characteristic
butter-constituents, while a poorly fed animal, kept in the
open till late in the autumn, when the nights are cold, gives
milk exceptionally poor in fat, the differences expressed as
``insoluble fatty acids'' lying between 86 and 91%, and in
volatile acids, expressed as ``Wollny'' numbers, between 18
and 36. Generally, therefore, summer butter is rich and autumn
butter poor in volatile acids, or, geographically, Australian
butter is more frequently high, Siberian often exceedingly low
in these acids.  The food of the animal also may, under certain
conditions, yield a notable proportion of its fatty matter
to the butter; cows that have, for instance, been fed upon
large quantities of cotton-seed cake yield butter in which the
cotton-seed oil may be traced, and the same holds good with
other fatty foods.  All these, and other circumstances, combine
to render the detection of small quantities of foreign fats
that have been fraudulently added to butter almost a matter of
impossibility.  This is perfectly well known to unscrupulous
butter dealers, and an enormous amount of adulteration is known
to be practised.  Even small amounts of adulteration could,
nevertheless, often be discovered while margarine manufacturers
employed considerable proportions of vegetable oils in their
products, some of these oils furnishing characteristic chemical
reactions allowing of their discovery.  Here some firms of
margarine manufacturers came to the aid of the butter-mixer
and produced margarine containing nothing but animal fat,
so-called ``neutral'' margarine being freely offered for
fraudulent purposes.  There is one fat besides butter which
contains ``volatile fatty acids,'' namely, cocoa-nut oil.
Since means have been found to deprive this fat of its strong
cocoa-nut odour and taste, it has largely been used in the
adulteration of butter, and margarine containing Cocoa-nut
oil and other fatty substances has freely been manufactured
and sold specially for butter adulteration.  The seat of this
class of fraud is mainly in Holland.  Analysts happily found
means to detect this oil when present above 10%, and numerous
prosecutions made mixers more careful.  Abundant evidence,
however, exists showing that the simultaneous addition of
water or milk so as to keep the water limit below 16% and
that of margarine entirely composed of animal fats below 10%
leaves a large margin of profit with a very small chance of
detection.  For the moment at least analysis has had the worst
of it in the battle between honesty and ``business methods.''

Margarine itself is a legitimate article of commerce (when
sold with due notice to the purchaser), but is frequently
adulterated.  As regards the fats used in its manufacture
there does not exist any legal restriction, and as long
as the fat is in a state fit for human consumption the
manufacturer can make whatever mixture he pleases.  In general
there is no reason to think that any bad or disgusting fats
are finding their way into the factories, which in most
countries are under proper supervision; the old stories about
recovered grease from all sorts of offal are quite without
foundation.  But a considerable percentage of solid paraffin
has been met with as an admixture of the fatty part of
margarine.  As the fatty portion of the article is the
only one of value, some manufacturers make great efforts
to produce margarine with as small a percentage of fatty
matter as possible, either by incorporating excessive amounts
of water or of milk--margarines with over 30% of water
being met with--or by introducing sugar, glucose, starch,
gelatinous matter, in fact anything that is cheaper than
fat.  The English law imposes a limitation upon the percentage
of butter-fat that may be contained in margarine, but at
present at least the tendency of manufacturers is all for
having as little butter or other valuable fat in margarine
as is practicable, and not to err on the other side.  For the
purpose of facilitating the discovery of margarine when it has
been fraudulently added to butter, some countries (Germany,
Belgium, Sweden) insist upon the use of from 5 to 10% of
sesame oil (from the seed of Sesamum orientale or indicum,
belonging to the family of Bignoniaceae) in the manufacture
of such margarine as is to be consumed within the countries in
question.  This oil yields a characteristic red colour when
it, or any mixture containing it, is shaken with an hydrochloric
solution of either sugar or furfurol, and is intended to serve
as an ``ear-marking'' substance.  The addition of a little
starch or arrowroot, easily discoverable chemically or by the
microscope, is also required by Belgium, but in the absence
of any international agreement these ear-marking additions
are of little practical use.  It is, however, interesting to
point out that, while complying with the regulations of the
governments, margarine manufacturers of the countries named
have found an easy way of rendering the regulations quite
nugatory: they add methyl-orange, a colouring matter which
itself produces a red colour with acid and quite obscures
the real colour obtained by the official test for sesame oil.

Cheese may be legitimately made from full-milk, milk that
has been enriched by addition of cream, or from milk that
has been more or less skimmed.  It varies consequently very
widely in composition, so-called cream cheese containing
not less than 60% of fat; Stilton upwards of 40%; Cheddar
about 30%; Dutch, Parmesan and some Swiss and Danish less
than 20%. The amount of water varies with the kind and age
of the cheese and may be as low as 20 and as high as 60%.
Under these circumstances it is impracticable to lay down
any hard-and-fast rules as to the composition of cheese.
When, however, cheese is made from skimmed milk and the
fat is replaced by margarine, as is the case in so-called
``filled'' or margarine cheeses, the sale of these amounts to an
adulteration, unless the presence of the foreign substance is
declared.  It may at first sight appear strange that the person
who robs milk of its most valuable portion, the cream, may
prepare a legitimate article of food from the remainder, while
he who to that remainder adds something to replace the fat does
an illegitimate act, but it must be taken into consideration
that the replacement is frequently made with fraudulent
intent and that the ordinary purchaser cannot by taste or
smell distinguish the adulterated from the genuine article,
while there is no difficulty in recognizing skim-milk cheese.

Lard.--Between the years 1880 and 1890 a gigantic fraudulent
trade in adulterated lard was carried on from the United
States.  A great proportion of the American lard imported into
England was found to consist of a mixture of more or less real
lard with cotton-seed oil and beef-stearine.  Cotton-seed oil
is one of the cheapest vegetable oils fit for human consumption,
beef-stearine the hard residue obtained in the manufacture
of oleo-margarine after the more fluid fat has been pressed
from the beef fat.  These mixtures were made so skilfully by
large Chicago manufacturers that for some years they escaped
detection.  A bill introduced in 1888 into the American
Senate to stop this imposture directed general attention to
the subject, and energetic measures, taken both in America
and in England, quickly put an end to it.  From the memorial
presented in the United States Senate in support of the
bill, it appeared that in about 1887 the annual production
of lard in the States was estimated at 600 million pounds,
of which more than 35% was adulterated.  Compounds were made
containing only a small quantity of lard or none at all, yet
were sold as ``choice refined lard'' or under other eulogistic
names.  Many lard substitutes, chiefly made from cotton-seed
oil, are still met with, but are mostly sold in a legitimate
manner.  From the germ of maize--which must be separated
from the starchy portion of the seed before the latter can be
manufactured into glucose--the oil (maize-oil) is expressed,
and this now is used as a lard adulterant, its detection
being far more difficult than that of cotton-seed oil.

Oils.--For very many years all oils were considered to
be composed of olein, that is to say, the triglyceride of
oleic acid, with small quantities of impurities; chemists,
therefore, to distinguish oils of various origin, confined
themselves to tests for these impurities, employing so-called
colour reactions based upon the change of colour of the oil
by various reagents such as sulphuric, nitric or phosphoric
acids.  These reactions were exceedingly indefinite and
unsatisfactory and oil adulteration was prevalent and almost
undiscoverable.  It has been found, however, that the old
ideas concerning the believed uniformity in the nature and
constitution of oils were erroneous.  Some oils, indeed, do
consist of olein, almond oil being a type, others contain a
glyceride of an acid which is distinguished from oleic acid
by containing one molecule less hydrogen, called linoleic
acid.  To this class belong cotton-seed and sesame oils.
Others again include a glyceride of an acid containing still
less hydrogen, linolenic acid (linseed and similar drying
oils), and lastly the liver oils are still poorer in hydrogen.
These various acids or the oils contained in them combine with
various percentages of iodine, oleic acid absorbing the smallest
proportion (about 80%); For each oil the iodine absorption
is a fairly constant quantity; this number, together with
the determination of the amount of caustic alkali needed for
complete saponification, the thermal rise with strong sulphuric
acid or with bromine, the refraction of light and the specific
gravity, now enable the analyst to form a fair idea of the
nature of any sample under examination, and, in consequence
of this advance in knowledge, adulteration of oils has much
declined.  The most common adulterant of the more valuable
oils, like olive oil, is cotton-seed oil.  The oils expressed
from the sesame seed or the earth-nut (arachis oil) are also
frequently admixed with olive oil.  Almond oil is adulterated
with the closely allied oils from the peach-kernel or the
pine-seed.  Deodorized paraffin hydrocarbons also enter
sometimes as adulterants into edible oils.  There is,
however, a marked improvement in the purity of oils generally.
Flour and bread as sold in England are almost invariably
genuine.  The old forms of adulteration, such as the use of
alum for the production of a white but indigestible loaf from
bad flour, have disappeared.  The only admixture which has
been met with during recent years is maize-meal in American
produce.  This is of inferior food value to wheat-meal.

Sugar in its various forms can hardly be said to be subject
to adulteration by the addition of inferior substitutes.  One
single case of such substitution analogous to the proverbial
but probably mythical sanding of sugar occurred between
1880 and 1905 in England, some crushed marble having been
found in a consignment of German sugar in a large British
establishment.  There have, however, been numerous prosecutions
for a fraud of another class, namely, the substitution
of dyed beetroot sugar for Demerara sugar.  Formerly the
sugar produced by the old imperfect and wasteful methods of
manufacture was more or less yellow or brown from adhering
molasses.  Sugar, as now obtained, be it from cane or beet, is
white; yet the public is so wedded to its customs that white
sugar except as lump or castor sugar does not,find a ready
sale.  The manufacturer is obliged to colour his product yellow
by artificial means, that is to say, either by the addition of
a little aniline dye, harmless in itself, or, as in the West
Indies, mostly by the use of a small quantity of chloride
of tin, so-called ``bloomer.'' European refined beet-sugar
coloured with aniline dye to distinguish it from Demerara cane
sugar is sold under the name of ``yellow crystals.'' These,
although richer in real sugar than Demerara, are without the
delicious aroma of cane syrup which belongs to the latter, and
are not infrequently fraudulently substituted for Demerara.

Marmalade and Jams.---In the preparation of marmalade
and jams, which articles were for a long time mado from
fruit and sugar only, a part of the sugar, from 10 to 15%,
is often now replaced by starch glucose.  This material,
consisting mainly of a mixture of dextrose and dextrin, is
of much less sweetening power than ordinary sugar and mostly
cheaper.  It is said to prevent the crystallization which
frequently used to occur in some jams.  The use of glucose
has been declared by the High Court (Smith v. Wisden,
1901) to be legitimate, the court holding that as there was
no recognized standard for the composition of marmalade the
addition of saccharine material not injurious to health could
not constitute an offence.  Artificial colouring matters and
chemical preservatives are almost constant ingredients of
jams.  To such fruits which, when boiled with sugar, do
not readily yield a jelly (strawberries, raspberries)
an addition of apple juice is frequently made in the
manufacture of jam, without much objection; the pulp of the
apple, however, is sometimes bodily added as an adulterant.

Tea.---In consequence of the proviso contained in the Food
Act of 1875 that tea was to be examined by the Customs on
importation, such tea as was found to be admixed with other
substance or exhausted tea being refused entry into England,
the adulteration of tea has been virtually suppressed.  Great
numbers of samples are annually examined by the Customs,
and a not inconsiderable proportion of these are condemned
because they are either damaged or dirty, their use for
the manufacture of theine being permitted, only sound and
genuine tea coming to the British public.  The practice, very
common a generation ago, of artificially colouring tea green
with, a mixture of Prussian blue and turmeric, has quite
vanished with the decline of the consumption of green tea.

Coffee.---A few cases of artificially manufactured coffee
berries, made from flour and chicory, have been observed, but
it would not be fair to speak of a practice of adulteration
regarding coffee berries.  Not infrequently coffee is roasted
with the addition of some fatty matter or paraffin or sugar,
to give to the roasted coffee a glossy appearance.  These
additions as a rule are small in amount.  Ground coffee is
often sold adulterated with chicory, sugar or caramel.  Other
adulterations, reference to which is found in literature relating
to the second half of the 19th century, do not seem now to occur.

Cocoa and chocolate are liable to a number of fraudulent
or questionable additions.  In the cheaper qualities of
cocoa-powder sugar and starch--the latter in the form
of sago flour or arrowroot--are admixed in very large
proportions, and, in order to give to such mixtures something
like the appearance of genuine cocoa, red oxide of iron is
added.  This almost invariably is more or less arsenical.
Cocoa-shell, a perfectly valueless material, is mixed in a
very finely ground state with cocoa of the commoner kind.
Owing to the enormous increase in the consumption of so-called
chocolate-creams, which are masses of sugar confectionery
coated with a cocoa-paste containing a large proportion of
the fat of cocoa (cocoa-butter), the quantity of cocoa-butter
that is obtained in the manufacture of cocoa-powders is
no longer sufficient to cover the demand.  Substitutes of
cocoa-butter prepared from cocoa-nut oil are manufactured
on a large scale, and all enter without acknowledgment
into chocolates or chocolate creams.  As there are not any
regulations touching the composition of chocolate, sugar
or starch or both are used in chocolate manufacture, and
especially in that of chocolate powders in often excessive
quantities.  In the Dutch mode of manufacture of cocoa-powders
an addition of from 3% to 4% of an alkaline salt is made
for the purpose of rendering the cocoa ``soluble,'' or, more
strictly, for putting it into such a physical condition that
it does not settle in the cup.  This addition does not, as
is often alleged, render the cocoa alkaline, and is not made
with any fraudulent object; several countries, however, have
passed regulations fixing the maximum of the addition which
may thus legitimately be made.  Most of the cocoa powders sold
in England are prepared in accordance with the Dutch method.

Wine.--If under this term a beverage is understood which
consists of nothing but fermented grape juice, a great
proportion of the wine consumed in England is not genuine
wine.  All port and sherry comes into commerce after
having received an addition of spirit, generally made from
potatoes; port and sherry would not be what they are and
as they have been for generations unless they were thus
fortified.  The practice can now hardly be classed among
adulterations.  A well-fermented wine made from the juice
of properly matured grapes does not require any added
alcohol in order that it should keep; imperfectly made wine
is liable to turn sour; the addition of alcohol prevents
this.  French wines, both red and white, are hardly subject to
adulteration.  In wine-growing countries like France wine is so
cheap and plentiful that it would be difficult to manufacture
an imitation beverage cheaper than genuine wine.  In Germany
the conditions are different, the districts from which those
wines that are exported are nominally derived being small and
insufficient to cover the world's demands.  The addition of
sugar solution or of starch sugar is allowed within limits
by German law, which not even requires that notification to
the purchaser be made of the addition, and it is notorious
that a very large proportion of the wine sold under the name
of ``hock'' and some of that coming from the Moselle are
thus diluted, sugared and lengthened, or, in plain terms,
adulterated.  Wines from the Palatinate which under their own
names would not sell out of Germany are often passed off as
hocks.  As there is but little German red wine the law
also permits this to be lengthened by the addition of white
wine.  For the removal of part of the acid from sour wine
produced in bad vintages the addition of precipitated chalk
is also permitted.  Attention has been drawn in England to
the very serious fact that German wines sometimes contain
salts of zinc in small quantities.  These are introduced by
a fining agent protected by a German patent, consisting of
solutions of sulphate of zinc and potassium ferrocyanide,
which, when added together in ``suitable proportions,''
produce a precipitate of zinc-ferrocyanide which carries down
all turbidity in the wine and is supposed to leave neither
zinc nor ferrocyanide behind in solution.  As a matter of
fact, one or other of these highly objectionable substances
is almost invariably left behind.  The use of artificial
colouring matters in wines does not appear now to occur.

Beer cannot be said to be adulterated, although it is well
known that materials often very different from these which the
general public believe to be the proper raw materials for the
manufacture of beer, namely, water, malt and hops, are largely
used.  By the Customs and Inland Revenue Act 1885, sec. 4,
beer is defined as any liquor ``which is made or sold as a
description of beer, or as a substitute for beer, and which
on analysis of a sample thereof shall be found to contain more
than 2% of proof spirit.'' That is to say, beer is legally
anything that is sold as beer provided that it has 2% of proof
spirit.  There is not any restriction upon the materials
that are employed provided that they are not positively
poisonous.  For Inland Revenue purposes, however, a prohibition
has been made against the admixture of anything to beer
after it has been manufactured, and excise prosecutions of
publicans for watering beer are not infrequent.  Formerly
there was a restriction on the amount of salt that might be
present in beer; this no longer exists.  On the other hand it
cannot be said that any injurious materials are being used by
brewers, the brewing industry being, broadly speaking, most
efficiently supervised and controlled by scientifically trained
men.  The addition to beer of bisulphate of lime, which is
almost universally practised in England, is not an adulteration
in the ordinary acceptation of the term.  The thin beer which
has taken the place of the strong ales of the past generation
contains an insufficiency of alcohol to ensure keeping qualities,
and it is difficult to see how modern English beers could
be sold without the addition of some sort of preservative.

Non-Alcoholic Drinks.---The same remark applies to a good
many of so-called temperance beverages.  Of these again it is
hardly proper to speak as liable to adulteration.  So-called
sodawater is very often devoid of soda and is only carbonated
water, but the term ``soda-water'' is a survival from the times
when this was a medicinal beverage and when soda was prescribed
to be present in definite amount by the pharmacopoeia.  Potash
and especially lithia waters very frequently contain only
mere traces of the substances from which they derive their
names.  The sweetness of ginger-beer and often of lemonade is no
longer due to sugar, as used to be the case, but to saccharine
(the toluol derivative), which is possessed of sweetness but
not of nourishment; and since, as an antiseptic, it may affect
the digestion, its use in these beverages is to be deprecated.

Vinegar ought to be the product obtained by the successive
alcoholic and acetous fermentation of a sugary liquor.  When
this is obtained from malt or from malt admixed with other grain
the vinegar is called a malt vinegar.  Often, however, acid
liquors pass under that name which have been made by the action
of a mineral acid upon any starchy material such as maize or
tapioca, with or without the addition of neat sugar.  Dilute
acetic acid, obtained from wood, is very frequently used as
an adulterant of vinegar.  When properly purified such acid
is unobjectionable physiologically, but it is improper to sell
it as vinegar.  Adulteration of vinegar by sulphuric or other
acids, formerly a common practice, is now exceedingly rare.

Spirits.---By the Sale of Food and Drugs Act Amendment Act,
whisky, brandy and rum must not be sold of a less alcoholic
strength than 25 under proof (corresponding to 43% of alcohol
by volume), and gin 35 under proof (37% alcohol).  For many
years the only form of adulteration recorded by public analysts
related to the alcoholic strength, the undue dilution of
spirits with water being, of course, a profitable form of
fraud.  No addition of any injurious matters to commercial
spirits has been observed.  It was, however, well known that
a very considerable proportion of so-called brandies was not
the product of the grape, but that spirits of other origin
were frequently admixed with grape brandy.  A report which
appeared in 1902 in the Lancet on ``Brandy, its production
at Cognac and the supply of genuine brandy to this country,''
served as a stimulus to public analysts to analyse commercial
brandies, and convictions of retailers for selling so-called
brandy followed.  It was shown that genuine brandy made
in the orthodox style from wine in pot-stills contained a
considerable proportion of substances other than alcohol to
which the flavour and character of brandy is due; among these
flavouring materials combinations of a variety of organic
acids with alcohols (chemically described as ``esters'')
predominate.  For the present a brandy is not considered
genuine unless it contains in 100,000 parts (calculated free
from water) at least 60 parts of ``esters.', As a consequence
a trade has sprung up in artificially produced esters, sold
for the purpose of adding them to any spirit to fraudulently
convert it into a liquor passing as ``brandy.'' The inquiries
into the nature of brandy led to investigations into
whisky.  Formerly whisky was made from grain only and obtained
by pot-still distillation, that form of ``still'' yielding
a product containing a comparatively large proportion of
volatile matters other than alcohol.  For many years past,
however, improved stills--so-called patent stills--have been
adopted, enabling manufacturers to obtain a purer and far
stronger product, saving carriage and storage.  Attempts were
made in England in 1905-1907 to restrict the term ``whisky''
solely to the pot-still product.  But the question was referred
in 1908 to a Royal Commission which reported against such a
restriction.  A common form of adulteration of whisky is the
addition to it of spirit made on the Continent mainly from
potatoes.  This spirit is almost pure alcohol and is quite devoid
of the injurious properties which are popularly but falsely
attributed to it.  The substitution of this--a very cheap and
quite flavourless material---for one which owes its value more to
its flavour than to its alcoholic contents, is clearly fraudulent.

Drugs.---To the adulteration of drugs but very brief reference
can here be made.  It is satisfactory to record that but very
few of the great number of drugs included in the pharmacopoeias
are liable to serious adulteration, and there are very few
cases on record during recent years where real fraudulent
adulteration was involved.  The numerous preparations used
by druggists are mostly prepared in factories under competent
and careful supervision, and the standards laid down in the
British Pharmacopoeia are, broadly speaking, carefully adhered
to.  The occurrence of unlooked-for impurities, such as that
of arsenic in sodium-phosphate or in various iron preparations,
can hardly be included in the list of adulterations.  In the
making up of prescriptions, however, a good deal of laxity
is displayed; thus, the Local Government Board report of the
years 1904-1905 refers to an instance of a quinine mixture
containing 23 grains of quinine-sulphate instead of 240
grains.  A certain latitude in the making up of physicians'
prescriptions must necessarily be allowed, but much too frequently
the reasonable limit of a 10% error over or under the amount
of drug prescribed is exceeded.  Certain perishable drugs,
such as sweet spirits of nitre, or others liable to contain
from their mode of manufacture metallic impurities, form the
subjects of frequent prosecutions.  The element of intentional
fraud which characterizes many forms of food adulteration
is happily generally absent in the case of drugs. (O. H.*)

ADULTERY (from Lat. adultorium), the sexual intercourse of
a married person with another than the offender's husband or
wife.  Among the Greeks, and in the earlier period of Roman
law, it was not adultery unless a married woman was the
offender.  The foundation of the later Roman law with regard
to adultery was the lex Julia de adulteriis coercendis
passed by Augustus about 17 B.C. (See Dig. 48. 5; Paul.
Rec. Sent. ii. 26; Brisson, dit Leg. Jul. de Adult.)
In Great Britain it was reckoned a spiritual offence, that
is, cognizable by the spiritual courts only.  The common
law took no further notice of it than to allow the party
aggrieved an action of damages.  In England, however, the
action for ``criminal conversation,'' as it was called, was
nominally abolished by the Matrimonial Causes Act 1857; but
by the 33rd section of the same act, the husband may claim
damages from one who has committed adultery with his wife in
a petition for dissolution of the marriage, or for judicial
separation.  In Ireland the action for criminal conversation is
still retained.  In Scotland damages may be recovered against
an adulterer in an ordinary action of damages in the civil
court, and the latter may be found liable for the expenses
of an action of divorce if joined with the guilty spouse as a
co-defender.  Adultery on the part of the wife is, by the
law of England, a ground for divorce, but on the part of the
husband must be either incestuous or bigamous, or coupled with
cruelty or desertion for two or more years.  In the United
States adultery is everywhere ground of divorce, and there
is commonly no prohibition against marrying the paramour or
other re-marriage by the guilty party.  Even if there be such a
prohibition, it would be unavailing out of the state.in which
the divorce was granted; marriage being a contract which, if
valid where executed, is generally treated as valid everywhere.
Adultery gives a cause of action for damages to the wronged
husband.  It is in some states a criminal offence on the
part of each party to the act, for which imprisonment in the
penitentiary or state prison for a term of years may be awarded.

In England, a complete divorce or dissolution of the
marriage could, until the creation of the Court of Probate
and Divorce, be obtained only by an act of parliament.
This procedure is still pursued in the case of Irish
divorces.  In Scotland a complete divorce may be effected by
proceedings in the Court of Session, as succeeding to the old
ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the commissioners.  A person
divorced for adultery is, by the law of Scotland, prohibited
from intermarrying with the paramour.  In France, Germany,
Austria and other countries in Europe, as well as in some
of the states of the United States, adultery is a criminal
offence, punishable by imprisonment or fine. (See DIVORCE.)

AD VALOREM (Lat. for ``according to value''), the term
given in commerce to a duty which is levied by customs
authorities on goods or commodities in proportion to their
value.  An ad valorem duty is the opposite of a specific
duty, which is chargeable on the measure or weight of
goods.  The United States is the one important country which
has adopted in its tariff an extensive system of ad valorem
duties, though it has not altogether disregarded specific
duties; in some cases, indeed, the two are combined.  Ad
valorem duties, in the United States, are levied according
to the saleable value of the goods in the country of their
origin, and it is usual to require at the port of entry the
production of an invoice with full particulars as to the
place where, time when, and person from whom the goods were
purchased, and the actual cost of the goods and the charges on
them.  Such an invoice is countersigned by the consul of
the country for which the goods are intended.  On arrival
at the port of consignment the invoice is sworn to by the
importer.  The goods are then valued by an appraiser, and
if the valuation of the appraiser exceeds that which appears
on the invoice, double duty is levied, subject to appeal
to a general appraiser and to boards of general appraisers.

It has been argued that, theoretically, an ad valorem duty is
preferable to a specific duty, inasmuch as it falls in proper
proportion alike on the high-priced and low-priced grades of a
commodity, and, no matter how the value of any article fluctuates,
the rate of taxation automatically adjusts itself to the new
value.  In practice, however, ad valorem duties lead to great
inequalities, and are very difficult to levy; while the relative
value of two commodities may remain apparently unchanged under
an ad valorem duty, yet owing to the difference in the cost of
production, or through the different proportions of fixed and
circulating capital employed in their manufacture, an ad valorem
tax will be felt much more severely by one commodity than by
another.  Again, there is always a difficulty in obtaining a
true valuation on the exported goods, for values from their
very nature are variable; while specific duties remain steady,
and the buyer can always ascertain exactly what he will have to
pay.  The opening to fraud is also very great, for where, as
in the United States, the object of the duty is to keep out
foreign goods, every valuation at the port of shipment will be
looked upon with the utmost suspicion, while it will always be
a temptation to the foreign seller to undervalue, a temptation
in many cases encouraged by the importer, for it lessens his
tax, while the seller's market is increased.  The staff of
appraisers which must necessarily be kept at each port of entry
considerably raises the expense, to say nothing of the annoyance
and delay caused both to importers and foreign shippers.

The term ``ad valorem'' is used also of stamp duties.  By the
Stamp Act 1891 certain classes of instruments, e.g. awards,
bills of exchange, conveyances or transfers, leases, &c., must
be stamped in England with the proper ad valorem duty, that is,
the duty chargeable according to the value of the subject matter
of the particular instruments or writings. (See STAMP DUTIES.)

ADVANCEMENT, a term technically used in English law for a
sum of money or other benefit, given by a father during his
lifetime to his child, which must be brought into account by
the child on a distribution of the father's estate upon an
intestacy on pain of his being excluded from participating
in such distribution.  The principle is of ancient origin;
as regards goods and chattels it was part of the ancient
customs of London and the province of York, and as regards
land descending in coparcenary it has always been part
of the common law of England under the name of hotch-pot
(q.v.). The general rule was established by the Statutes of
Distribution.  The conditions under which cases of advancement
arise are as follows: There must be a complete intestacy;
the intestate estate must be that of the father; and the
advancement must have been made in the lifetime of the
father.  Land which belongs or would belong to a child as
heir at law or customary heir need not be brought in to
the common fund, even though such land was given during the
father's life.  The widow can gain no advantage from any
advancement.  No child can be forced to account for his or
her advancement, but in default thereof he will be excluded
from a share in the intestate's estate.  As to what is an
advancement there has been much conflict of judicial opinion.
According to one view, nothing is an advancement unless it be
given ``on marriage or to establish the child in life.'' The
other and probably the correct view is that any considerable
sum of money paid to a child at that child's request is an
advancement; thus payment of a son's debts of honour has been
held to be an advancement.  On the other hand, trivial gifts
and presents to a child are undoubtedly not advancements.

ADVANTAGE, that which gives gain or helps forward in any
way.  The Fr. avant (before) shows the origin and meaning of
this word, the d having subsequently crept in and corrupted
the spelling.  It is often contracted to ``vantage.'' In
some games (e.g. lawn tennis) the term ``vantage'' is used
technically in scoring (``deuce'' and ``vantage''; ``vantage
sets'').  A position which gives a better chance of success
than its surroundings is called a ``vantage ground.''
In an unfavourable sense the word ``advantage'' is used
to express a mean use made of some favourable condition
(e.g. to take advantage of another man's misfortunes).

ADVENT (Lat. Adventus, sc. Redemptoris, ``the coming
of the Saviour''), a holy season of the Christian church, the
period of preparation for the celebration of the nativity or
Christmas.  In the Eastern church it lasts from St Martin's
Day (11th of November), and in other churches from the
Sunday nearest to St Andrew's Day (30th of November) till
Christmas.  It is uncertain at what date the season began to be
observed.  A canon of a council at Saragossa in 380, forbidding
the faithful to be absent from church during the three weeks
from the 17th of December to the Epiphany, is thought to be an
early reference to Advent.  The first authoritative mention of
it is in the Synod of Lerida (524), and since the 6th century
it has been recognized as the beginning of the ecclesiastical
year.  With the view of directing the thoughts of Christians
to the first coming of Christ as Saviour, and to his second
coming as Judge, special lessons are prescribed for the four
Sundays in Advent.  From the 6th century the season was kept
as a period of fasting as strict as that of Lent; but in the
Anglican and Lutheran churches the rule is now relaxed.  In
the Roman Catholic church Advent is still kept as a season of
penitence.  Dancing and festivities are forbidden, fasting
enjoined and purple vestments are worn in the church services.

In many countries Advent was long marked by diverse popular
observances, some of which even still survive.  Thus in England,
especially the northern counties, there was a custom (now
extinct) for poor women to carry round the ``Advent images,'' two
dolls dressed one to represent Christ and the other the Virgin
Mary.  A halfpenny was expected from every one to whom these were
exhibited, and bad luck was thought to menace the household not
visited by the doll-bearers before Christmas Eve at the latest.

In Normandy the farmers still employ children under twelve to
run through the fields and orchards armed with torches, setting
fire to bundles of straw, and thus it is believed driving out
such vermin as are likely to damage the crops. III Italy among
other Advent celebrations is the entry into Rome in the last
days of Advent of the Calabrian pifferari or bagpipe players,
who play before the shrines of the Holy Mother.  The Italian
tradition is that the shepherds played on these pipes when they
came to the manger at Bethlehem to do homage to the Saviour.

ADVENTISTS, SECOND, members of religious bodies whose
distinctive feature is a belief in the imminent physical
return of Jesus Christ.  The first to bear the name were the
followers of William Miller, and adherents have always been
more numerous in America than in Europe.  There is a body of
Seventh Day Adventists who observe the old Sabbath (Saturday)
rather than the Christian Sunday.  They counsel abstemious
habits, but set no time for the coming of Christ, and so are
spared the perpetual disappointments that overtake the ordinary
adventist.  They have some 400 ministers and 60,000 members.

ADVENTITIOUS (from Lat. adventicius, coming from
abroad), a quality from outside, in no sense part of the
substance or circumstance: a man's clothes, or condition
of life, his wealth or his poverty, are called by Carlyle
``adventitious wrappages,'' as being extrinsic, superadded
and not a natural part of him.  In botany the word means
that which is not normal to the plant, which appears
irregularly and accidentally, e.g. buds or roots out of
place, or strange spots and streaks not native to the flower.

ADVENTURE (from Lat. res adventura, a thing about to
happen), chance, and especially chance of danger; so a hazardous
enterprise or remarkable incident.  Thus an ``adventurer,''
from meaning one who takes part in some speculative course
of action, came to mean one who lived by his wits and a
person of no character.  The word is also used in certain
restricted legal connexions. Joint adventure, for instance,
may be distinguished from partnership (q.v.). A bill
of adventure in maritime law (now apparently obsolete)
is a writing signed by the shipmaster declaring that goods
shipped in his name really belong to another, to whom he is
responsible.  The bill of gross adventure in French maritime
law is an instrument making a loan on maritime security.

ADVERTISEMENT, or ADVERTISING (Fr. avertissement,
warning, or notice), the process of obtaining and particularly
of purchasing publicity.  The business of advertising is of
very recent origin if it be regarded as a serious adjunct
to other phases of commercial activity.  In some rudimentary
form the seller's appeal to the buyer must, however, have
accompanied the earliest development of trade.  Under
conditions of primitive barter, communities were so small that
every producer was in immediate personal contact with every
consumer.  As the primeval man's wolfish antipathy to the
stranger of another pack gradually diminished, and as intercourse
spread the infection of larger desires, the trapper could
no longer satisfy his more complicated wants by the mere
exchange of his pelts for his lowland neighbour's corn and
oil.  A began to accept from B the commodity which he could
in turn deliver to C, while C in exchange for B's product
gave to A what D had produced and bartered to C. The mere
statement of such a transaction sufficiently presents its
clumsiness, and the use of primitive forms of coin soon
simplified the original process of bare barter.  It is
reasonable to suppose that as soon as the introduction of
currency marked the abandonment of direct relations between
purchaser and consumer an informal system of advertisement
in turn rose to meet the need of publicity.  At first the
offer of the producer must have been brought to the trader's
attention, and the trader's offer to the notice of the
consumer, by casual personal contact, supplemented by local
rumour.  The gradual growth of markets and their development
into periodical fairs, to which merchants from distant places
resorted, afforded, until printing was invented, the only
means of extended advertisement.  In England, during the 3rd
century, Stourbridge Fair attracted traders from abroad as
well as from all parts of England, and it may be conjectured
that the crying of wares before the booths on the banks of
the Stour was the first form of advertisement which had any
marked effect upon English commerce.  As the fairs of the
middle ages, with the tedious and hazardous journeys they
involved, gradually gave place to a more convenient system of
trade, the 15th century brought the invention of printing,
and led the Way to the modern development of advertising.  The
Americans, to whom the elaboration of newspaper advertising is
primarily due, had but just founded the first English-speaking
community in the western hemisphere when the first newspaper
was published in England.  But although the first periodical
publication containing news appeared in the month of May
1622, the first newspaper advertisement does not seem to
have been published until April 1647.  It formed a part of
No. 13 of Perfect Occurrences of Every Daie journall in
Parliament, and other Moderate Intelligence, and it read as
follows:-A Book applauded by the Clergy of England, called
The Divine Right of church Government, Collected by
sundry eminent Ministers in the Citie of London; Corrected
and augmented in many places, with a briefe Reply to certain
Queries against the Ministery of England; Is printed and
published for Joseph Hunscot and George Calvert, and
are to be sold at the Stationers' Hall, and at the Golden
Fleece in the Old Change.  Among the Mercuries, as the
weekly newspapers of the day were called, was the Mercurius
Elencticus, and in its 45th number, published on the 4th of
October 1648, there appeared the following advertisement:--



 The Reader is desired to peruse a Sermon,
 Entituled A Looking-Glasse for Levellers,
 Preached at St. Peters, Paules Wharf, on Sunday, Sept. 24th 1648,
 by Paul Knell, Mr. of Arts. Another Tract called A Reflex
 upon our Reformers, with a prayer for the Parliament
 In an issue of the Mercurius Politicus, published by Marchmont
 Nedham, who is described as ``perhaps both the ablest and the
 readiest man that had yet tried his hand at a newspaper,'' there
 appeared in January 1652 an advertisement, which has often
 been erroneously cited as the first among newspaper
 advertisements. It read as
 follows:--


Irenodia Gratulatoria, a heroic poem, being a congratulatory
panegyrick for my Lord General's return, summing up his
successes in an exquisite manner.  To be sold by John Holden,
in the New Exchange, London, Printed by Thomas Newcourt,
1652.  The article ``On the Advertising System,'' published
in the Edinburgh Review for February 1843, contains the
fullest account of early English advertising that has ever been
given, and it has been very freely drawn upon by all writers
who have since discussed the subject.  But it describes this
advertisement in the Mercurius Politicus as ``the very first,''
and the discovery of the two earlier instances above quoted was
due to the researches of a contributor to Notes and Queries.

In The Crosby Records, the commonplace-books of William
Blundell, there is an interesting comment, dated 1659, on
the lack of advertising facilities at that period--It would
be very expedient if each parish or village might have some
place, as the church or smithy, wherein to publish (by papers
posted up) the wants either of the buyer or the seller, as
such a field to be let, such a servant, or such a service,
to be had, &c. There was a book published in London weekly
about the year 1657 which was called (as I remember) The
Publick Advice. At gave information in very many of these
particulars.  A year later the same diarist says--There is an
office near the Old Exchange in London called the office of Publick
Advice.  From thence both printed and private information of
this useful nature are always to be had.  But what they print
is no more than a leaf or less in a diurnal.  I was in this
office.  The diurnal consisted of sixteen pages quarto in
1689.  In No. 62 of the London Gazette, published in June
1666, the first advertisement supplement was announced--An
Advertisement--Being daily prest to the Publication of Books,
Medicines, and other things not properly the business of a Paper
of Intelligence, This is to notifie, once for all, that we will
not charge the Gazette with Advertisements, unless they be
matter of State: but that a Paper of Advertisements will be
forthwith printed apart, & recommended to the Publick by another
hand.  In No. 94 of the same journal, published in October
1666, there appeared a suggestion that sufferers from the Great
Fire should avail themselves of this means of publicity--Such
as have settled in new habitations since the late Fire, and
desire for the convenience of their correspondence to publish
the place of their present abode, or to give notice of Goods
lost or found may repair to the corner House in Bloomsbury
on the East Side of the Great Square, before the House of
the Right Honourable the Lord Treasurer, where there is care
taken for the Receipt and Publication of such Advertisements.

The earlier advertisements, with the exception of formal
notices, seem to have been concerned exclusively with either
books or quack remedies.  The first trade advertisement,
which does not fall within either of these categories,
was curiously enough the first advertisement of a new
commodity, tea.  The following advertisement appeared in
the Mercurius Politicus, No. 435, for September 1658--

That excellent and by all Physitians approved China Drink,
called by the Chineans Tcha, by other nations Tay,
alias Tee, is sold at the Sultaness Head, a cophee-house
in Sweetings Rents, by the Royal Exchange, London.

The history of slavery, of privateering and of many other
curious incidents and episodes of English history during the
17th and 18th centuries might be traced by examination of the
antiquated advertisements which writers upon such subjects
have already collected.  In order that space may be found
for some consideration of the practical aspects of modern
advertising, the discussion of its gradual development must be
curtailed.  Nor is it necessary to preface this consideration by
any laboured statement of the importance which advertising has
assumed.  It is a matter of common knowledge that several
business houses are to be found in Great Britain, and a
larger number in the United States, who spend not less than
L. 50,000 a year in advertising, while one patent medicine
company, operating both in England and the United States, has
probably spent not less than L. 200,000 in Great Britain in one
year, and an English cocoa manufacturer is supposed to have
spent L. 150,000 in Great Britain.  Some of the best works
of artists as distinguished as Sir John Millais, Sir H. von
Herkomer and Mr Stacy Marks have been scattered broadcast by
advertisers.  The purchase of Sir John Millais' picture
``Bubbles'' for L. 2200 by the proprietors of a well-known
brand of soap is probably the most remarkable instance of the
expenditure in this direction which an advertiser may find
profitable.  There are in London alone more than 350 advertising
agents, of whom upwards of a hundred are known as men in
a considerable way of business.  The statements which from
time to time find currency in the newspapers with regard to
the total amount of money annually spent upon advertising
in Great Britain and in the United States are necessarily
no better than conjectures, but no detailed statistics are
required in order to demonstrate what every reader can plainly
see for himself, that advertising has definitely assumed
its position as a serious field of commercial enterprise.

Advertising, as practised at the beginning of the 20th century,
may be divided into three general classes:--1.  Advertising in
periodical publications. 2. Advertising by posters, signboards
(other than those placed upon premises where the advertised
business is conducted), transparencies and similar devices.
3. Circulars, sent in quantities to specific classes of
persons to whom the advertiser specially desired to address
himself.  It may be noted at the outset that advertising in
periodical publications exercises a reflex influence upon these
publications.  The dally, weekly and monthly publications of
the day are accustomed to look to advertisements for so large
a part of their revenue that the purchaser of a periodical
publication receives much greater value for his money than he
could reasonably expect from the publisher if the aggregate
advertising receipts did not constitute a perpetual subsidy
to the publisher.  It is not to be supposed, however, that
the receipts from the sale of a paper cover all its expenses
and that the advertising revenue is all clear profit.  The
average newspaper reader would be amazed if he knew at how
great a cost the day's news is laid before him.  A dignified
journal displays no inclination to cry from the housetops
the vastness of its expenditure, but from time to time an
accident enables the public to obtain information in this
connexion.  The evidence taken by a recent Copyright Commission
disclosed that the expenditure of the leading English journal
upon foreign news alone amounted to more than L. 50,000 in the
course of one year, and that a year not characterized by any
great war to swell the ordinary volume of cable despatches.

In the case of daily papers sold at the minimum price, it is
not less obvious that the costliness of news service renders
advertising revenue indispensable, for although these less
important journals spend less money, the price at which they
are supplied to the news agents is very small in proportion
to the cost of their production.  If, however, this thought
be pursued to its logical conclusion, the advertiser must
admit that he in turn receives, from those among newspaper
readers who purchase his wares, prices sufficiently high
to cover the cost of his advertising.  So that the reader
is in the curious position of directly paying a certain
price for his newspaper, receiving a newspaper fairly worth
more than that price, while this price is supplemented by
the indirect incidence of a sort of tax upon many of the
commodities he consumes.  On the other hand, a great part
of the advertisements in a daily newspaper have themselves
an interest and utility not less than that possessed by the
news.  The man who desires to hire a house turns to the
classified lists which the newspaper publishes day after
day, and servants and employers find one another by the same
means.  The theatrical announcements are so much a part
of the news that even if a journal were not paid for their
insertion they could not be altogether omitted without
inconvenience to the reader.  In the main, however, it is
the advertiser who seeks the reader, not the reader who seeks
the advertiser, and the care with which advertisements are
prepared, and the certainty with which the success or failure
of a trader may be traced to his skill or want of skill as an
advertiser, show that the proper use of advertising is one
of the most indispensable branches of commercial training.

Poster and sign advertisements.

Before discussing in detail the methods of advertising
in periodical publications it may be well to complete,
for the use of the general reader, a brief survey of
the whole subject by examining the two other classes of
advertisement.  The most enthusiastic partisan of advertising
will admit that posters and similar devices are very
generally regarded by the public as sources of annoyance.
A bold headline or a conspicuous illustration in a newspaper
advertisement may for a moment force itself upon the reader's
attention.  In the French, and in some English newspapers,
where an advertisement is often given the form of an item of
news, the reader is distressed by the constant fear of being
hoodwinked.  He begins to read an account of a street accident,
and finds at the end of the paragraph a puff of a panacea for
bruises.  The best English and American journals have refused
to lend themselves to this sort of trickery, and in no one
of the best journals printed in the English language will
there be found an advertisement which is not so plainly
differentiated from news matter that the reader may avoid
it if he sees fit to do so.  On the whole, then, newspaper
advertisements ask, but do not compel attention.  The whole
theory of poster advertising is, on the other hand, one of
tyranny.  The advertiser who pays for space upon a hoarding or
wall, although he may encourage a form of art, deliberately
violates the wayfarer's mind.  A trade-mark or a catch-word
presents itself when eye and thought are occupied with other
subjects.  Those who object to this class of advertisement
assert, with some show of reason, that an advertisement has
no more right to assault the eye in this fashion than to
storm the ear by an inordinate din; and a man who came up
behind another man in the street, placed his mouth close to
the other's ear, and bawled a recommendation of some brand
of soap or tobacco, would be regarded as an intolerable
disturber of public peace and comfort.  Yet if the owner of
a house sees fit to paint advertisements upon his walls, his
exercise of the jealously guarded rights of private property
may not lightly be disturbed.  For the most part, both law and
public opinion content themselves with restraining the worst
excesses of the advertiser, leaving many sensitive persons to
suffer.  The National Society for Checking the Abuses of Public
Advertising (known as SCARA), founded in 1803 in London,
was organized for purposes which it describes as follows:--

The society aims at protecting the picturesque simplicity
of rural and river scenery, and promoting a regard for
dignity and propriety of aspect in towns---with especial
reference to the abuses of spectacular advertising.

It seeks to procure legislation whereby local representative
bodies would be enabled to exercise control, by means of
by-laws framed with a view to enabling them, at any rate,
to grant relief in cases of flagrant and acknowledged abuse.

It is believed that, when regulation is applied in cases where
local conditions are peculiarly favourable, the advantage will
be so apparent that, by force of imitation and competition,
the enforcement of a reasonable standard will gradually become
common.  The degree of restraint will, of course, depend upon
the varying requirements of different places and positions.
No hard-and-fast rule is suggested; no particular class of
advertisement is proscribed; certainly no general prohibition
of posters on temporary hoardings is contemplated.  Within
the metropolitan area sky signs have already been prohibited,
and it is hoped that some corresponding check will be placed
on the multiplication of the field boards which so materially
diminish the pleasure or comfort of railway journeys.

The society regards with favour the imposition of a moderate
tax or duty for imperial or local purposes on exposed
advertisements not coming within certain categories of
obviously necessary notices.  The difficulty of inducing a
chancellor of the exchequer to move in a matter where revenue
is not the primary consideration is not overlooked.  But it
is thought that an impost would materially reduce the volume
of exposed advertisements, and would at once extinguish
the most offensive and the most annoying class, i.e.
the quack advertisements by the road sides and the bills
stuck by unauthorized persons on trees, walls and palings.

Members are recommended to make it known that there exists
an active repugnance to the present practice of advertising
disfigurement, by giving preference, in private transactions,
to makers and dealers who do not employ objectionable
methods, and by avoiding, as far as possible, the purchase
of wares which, in their individual opinion, are offensively
puffed.  Action on these lines is advised rather for its
educational than for its immediately deterrent effect;
although, in the case of many of the more expensive
commodities, makers would undoubtedly be much influenced by
the knowledge that they would lose, rather than gain, custom.

The foregoing proposals are based on the following estimate
of the conditions of the problem.  It is believed that the
present licence causes discomfort or loss of enjoyment to
many, and that, in the absence of authoritative restriction,
it must grow far beyond its present limits; that beauty or
propriety of aspect in town and country forms as real a part
of the national wealth as any material product, and that to
save these from impairment is a national interest; that the
recent developments of vexatiously obtrusive advertising have
not grown out of any necessities of honourable business, but
are partly the result of a mere instinct of imitation, and
partly are a morbid phase of competition by which both the
consumers and the trade as a whole lose; that restriction
as regards the size and positions of advertising notices
would not be a hardship to those who want publicity--since
all competitors would be treated alike, each would have the
same relative prominence; that, as large sums of public money
are expended on institutions intended to develop the finer
taste, and on edifices of elaborate design, it must be held
inconsistent with established public policy to permit the
sensibilities thus imparted to be wounded, and architectural
effect to be destroyed at the discretion of a limited
class.  The influence of this society is to be seen in many
of the restrictions which have been imposed upon advertisers
since its work began.  About a year after its foundation
the London County Council abolished (under statutory powers
obtained from Parliament) advertisements coming within
the definition of sky-signs in the London Building Act of
1894.  These specifications are as follows--``Sky sign', means
any word, letter, model, sign, device, or representation in
the nature of an advertisement, announcement, or direction
supported on or attached to any post, pole, standard,
framework, or other support, wholly or in part upon, over,
or above any building or structure, which, or any part of
which, sky sign shall be visible against the sky from any
point in any street or public way, and includes all and every
part of any such post, pole, standard, framework, or other
support.  The expression ``sky sign'' shall also include any
balloon, parachute, or similar device employed wholly or in
part for the purposes of any advertisements or announcement
on, over, or above any building, structure, or erection
of any kind, or on or over any street or public way.

The act proceeds to exclude from its restrictions flagstaffs, weathercocks
and any solid signs not rising more than 3 feet above the roof.

Another by-law of the London County Council, in great measure
due to the observations made at coroners' inquests, protects the
public against the annoyances and the perils to traffic occasioned
by flashlight and searchlight advertisements.  This by-law reads
as follows:--No person shall exhibit any flashlight so as to
be visible from any street and to cause danger to the traffic
therein, nor shall any owner or occupier of premises permit
or suffer any flashlight to be so exhibited on such premises.

The expression ``flashlight'' means and includes any light used
for the purpose of illuminating, lighting, or exhibiting any
word, letter, model, sign, device, or representation in the
nature of an advertisement, announcement, or direction which
alters suddenly either in intensity, colour, or direction.

No person shall exhibit any searchlight so as to be visible
from any street, and to cause danger to the traffic therein,
nor shall any owner or occupier of premises permit or
suffer any searchlight to be so exhibited on such premises.

The expression ``searchlight'' means and includes any
light exceeding 500-candle power, whether in one lamp
or lantern, or in a series of lamps or lanterns used
together and projected as one concentrated light, and
which alters either in intensity, colour, or direction.

Advertising vans were so troublesome in London as to be
prohibited in 1853; the ``sandwich-man'' has in the City of
London and many towns been ousted from the pavement to the
gutter, from the more crowded to the less crowded streets,
and as the traffic problem in the great centres of population
becomes more urgent, he will probably be altogether suppressed.

Hoardings are now so restricted by the London Building Acts
that new hoardings cannot, except under special conditions, be
erected exceeding 12 feet in height, and no existing hoardings
can be increased in height so as to exceed that limit.  The
huge signs which some advertisers, both in England and the
United States, have placed in such positions as to mar the
landscape, have so far aroused public antagonism that there is
reason to hope that this form of nuisance will not increase.

In 1899 Edinburgh obtained effective powers of control over
ail sorts of advertising in public places, and this achievement
has been followed by no little agitation in favour of a
Parliamentary enactment which should once for all do away with
the defacing of the landscape in any part of the United Kingdom.

In 1907 an act was passed (Advertisements Regulation Act) of a
permissive character purely, under which a local authority is
enabled to make by-laws, subject to the confirmation of the Home
Secretary, regulating (1) the erection of hoardings, &c., exceeding
12 feet in height, and (2) the exhibition of advertisements which
might affect the ``amenities'' of a public place or landscape.

The English law with regard to posters has undergone very little
change.  The Metropolitan Police Act 1839 (2 and 3 Vict.
cap. 47) first put a stop to unauthorized posting, and the
Indecent Advertisements Act of 1889 (sec.  3) penalized the public
exposure of any picture or printed or written matter of an
indecent or obscene nature.  But in general practice there
is hardly any limitation to the size or character of poster
advertisements, other than good taste and public opinion.
On the other hand, public opinion is a somewhat vague entity,
and there have been cases in which a conflict has arisen as
to what public opinion really was, when its legally authorized
exponent was in a position to insist on its own arbitrary
definition.  Such an instance occurred some few years ago
in the case of a large poster issued by a well-known London
music-hail.  The Progressive majority on the London County
Council, led by Mr (afterwards Sir) J. M`Dougall, a well-known
``purity'' advocate, took exception to this poster, which
represented a female gymnast in ``tights'' posed in what was
doubtless intended for an alluring and attractive attitude; and,
in spite of any argument, the fact remained that the decision
as to renewing the licence of this music-hall rested solely
with the Council.  In showing that it would have no hesitation
in provoking even a charge of meddling prudery, the Council
probably gave a salutary warning to people who were inclined
to sail rather too near the wind.  But in Great Britain and
America, at all events (though a doubt may perhaps exist as to
some Continental countries), the advertiser and the artist are
restrained, not only by their own sense of propriety, but by
fear of offending the sense of propriety in their customers.

Posters and placards in railway stations and upon public
vehicles still embarrass the traveller who desires to find
the name of a station or the destination of a vehicle.  In
respect of all these abuses it is a regrettable fact that
unpopularity cannot be expected to deter the advertiser.  If a
name has once been fixed in the memory, it remains there long
after the method of its impression has been forgotten, and
the purpose of advertisements of the class under discussion
is really no more than the fixing of a trade name in the
mind.  The average man or woman who goes into a shop to buy
soap is more or less affected by a vague sense of antagonism
towards the seller.  There is a rudimentary feeling that even
the most ordinary transaction of purchase brings into contact
two minds actuated by diametrically opposed interests.  The
purchaser, who is not asking for a soap he has used before,
has some hazy suspicion that the shopkeeper will try to
sell, not the article best worth the price, but the article
which leaves the largest margin of profit; and the purchaser
imagines that he in some measure secures himself against a
bad bargain when he exercises his authority by asking for
some specific brand or make of the commodity he seeks.  If
he has seen any one soap so persistently advertised that his
memory retains its name, he will ask for it, not because he
has any reason to believe it to be better or cheaper than
others, but simply because he baffles the shopkeeper, and
assumes an authoritative attitude by exerting his own freedom
of choice.  This curious and obscure principle of action
probably lies at the root of all poster advertising, for the
poster does not set forth an argument as does the newspaper
advertisement.  It hardly attempts to reason with the
reader, but merely impresses a name upon his memory.  It
is possible, by lavish advertising, to go so far in this
direction that the trade-mark of a certain manufacturer
becomes synonymous with the name of a commodity, so that when
the consumer thinks of soap or asks for soap, his concept
inevitably couples the maker's name with the word ``soap''
itself.  In order that the poster may leave any impression
upon his mind, it must of course first attract his attention.
The assistance which the advertiser receives from the artist
in this connexion is discussed in the article POSTER.

The fact that the verb ``to circularize'' was first used in
1848; sufficiently indicates the very recent origin of the
practice of plying possible purchasers with printed letters and
pamphlets.  The penny postage was not established in England until
1840; the halfpenny post for circulars was not introduced until
1855.  In the United States a uniform rate of postage at two
cents was not established until 1883.  In both countries cheap
postage and cheap printing have so greatly encouraged the
use of circulars that the sort of people whom the advertiser
desires to reach--those who have the most money to spend,
and whose addresses, published in directories, indicate
their prosperous condition--are overwhelmed by tradesmen's
price-lists, appeals from charitable institutions, and other
suggestions for the spending of money.  The addressing of
envelopes and enclosing of circulars is now a recognized industry
in many large towns both in Great Britain and in the United
States.  It seems, however, to be the opinion of expert
advertisers that what is called ``general circularizing'' is
unprofitable, and that circulars should only be sent to persons
who have peculiar reason to be interested by their specific
subject-matter.  It may be noted, as an instance of the
assiduity with which specialized circularizing is pursued,
that the announcement of a birth, marriage or death in the
newspapers serves to calf forth a grotesque variety of circulars
supposed to be adapted to the momentary needs of the recipient.

In concluding this review of methods of advertising, other
than advertisements in periodical publications, we may add
that the most extraordinary attempt at advertisement which is
known to exist is to be found at the churchyard at Godalming,
Surrey, where the following epitaph was placed upon a


                             Sacred
                        To the memory of
                      Nathaniel Godbold Esq,
                      inventor & Proprietor
                    of that excellent medicine
                       The Vegetable Balsam
               For the Cure of Consumptions & Asthmas.
                      He departed this Life
                   The 17th. day of Decr. 1799
                          Aged 69 years.
                    Hic Cineres, ubique Fama.


The preparation of advertisements for the periodical press has
within the last twenty years or so become so important a task
that a great number of writers and artists--many of the latter
possessing considerable abilities--gain a livelihood from this
pursuit.  The ingenuity displayed in modern newspaper advertising
is unquestionably due to American initiative.  The English
newspaper advertisement of twenty years ago consisted for the
most part of the mere reiteration of a name.  An advertiser
who took a column's space supplied enough matter to fill an
inch, and ingenuously repeated his statement throughout the
column.  Such departures from this childlike method as
were made were for the most part eccentric to the point of
incoherence.  It may, however, be said in defence of English
advertisers, that newspaper publishers for a long time
sternly discountenanced any attempt to render advertisements
attractive.  So long as an advertiser was rigidly confined
to the ordinary single-column measure, and so long as he was
forbidden to use anything but the smallest sort of type, there
was very little opportunity for him to attract the reader's
attention.  The newspaper publisher must always remember
that the public buy a newspaper for the sake of the news,
not for the sake of the advertisements, and that if the
advertisements are relegated to a position and a scope, in
respect of display, so inferior that they may be overlooked,
the advertiser cannot afford to bear his share of the cost of
publication.  Of late The Times, followed by almost all
newspapers in the United Kingdom, has given the advertiser
as great a degree of liberty as he really needs, and many
experienced advertisers in America incline to the belief
that the larger licence accorded to American advertisers
defeats its own ends.  The truth would seem to be that the
advertiser will always demand, and may fairly expect, the
right to make his space as fantastic in appearance as that
allotted to the editor.  When some American editors see fit
to print a headline in letters as large as a man's hand,
and to begin half-a-dozen different articles on the first
page of a newspaper, continuing one on page 2, another on
page 4, and another on page 6, to the bewilderment of the
reader, it can hardly be expected that the American advertiser
should submit to any very strict code of decorum.  The
subject of the relation between a newspaper proprietor and
his advertisers cannot be dismissed without reference to the
notable independence of advertisers' influence, which English
and American newspaper proprietors authorize their editors to
display.  Whenever an insurance company or a bank goes wrong,
the cry is raised that all the editors in Christendom had
known for years that the directors were imbeciles and rogues,
but had conspired to keep mute for the sake of an occasional
advertisement.  When the British public persisted, not long
ago, in paying premium prices for the shares of over-capitalized
companies, the crash had no sooner come than the newspapers
were accused of having puffed promotions for the sake of the
money received for publishing prospectuses.  As a matter of
fact, in the case of the best dailies in England and America,
the editor does not stand at all in awe of the advertiser, and
time after time the Money Article has truthlessly attacked a
promotion of which the prospectus appeared in the very same
issue.  It is indeed to the interest of the advertiser, as
well as to the interest of the reader, that this independence
should be preserved, for the worth of any journal as an
advertising medium depends upon its possess